Title: pwc_pwc_5th_annual_digital_iq_survey
Date Published: 2013-05-31 11:00:31+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_pwc_5th_annual_digital_iq_survey.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

PwC’s 5th Annual
Digital IQ Survey
When the going gets tough, 
the digital get going
The India story
May 2013
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     2  
1. The GDP growth in India is estimated at 5% in the financial year ending March 2013 by the Government of India (Advanced estimates of national income, 2012-13)
2. Swiss Re, sigma No 2/2012
3. The new digital economy, How will it transform business – A research paper produced by Oxford Economics in collaboration with PwC, SAP, Citi, Cisco and AT&T
4. Through the looking glass, Emerging trends, PwC India, January 2013  PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ survey findings: Strengthening your digital conversations  
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ survey findings: Strengthening your digital conversationsBusiness leaders in India are facing radical changes 
in economic and market structures. While they were 
adapting to the constant volatility in global economies, 
our domestic growth settled into the lowest rate of the decade this year
1. On the other hand, the number of 
disruptions, both natural and manmade, has increased in the last four decades around the globe
2 . 
Notwithstanding the unprecedented changes, the need to navigate through pitfalls and disruptions, businesses are striving to achieve the core objectives of fostering 
growth, meeting disparate consumer needs, reaching out 
to markets, compete and succeed. In such times, speeding up the adoption of key technologies like social networks, 
Digital IQ is a measure 
of how well companies 
understand the value  
of technology and weave it into the fabric 
of their organisation.
mobile computing, analytics, cloud computing (SMAC) 
and other emerging technologies will transform businesses 
and accelerate wealth creation, especially in the emerging 
markets economies3. For instance, leading firms have started 
using digital ecosystems to take advantage of disruptions  
and information to create significant economic and 
competitive value4 . 
The India cut of the PwC’s Annual Digital IQ survey is a reflection of this trend. It evaluates how enterprises are riding the digital wave to engage more effectively with 
their crucial stakeholders, fine-tune their operational 
effectiveness and strengthen risk management strategies. 
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     3  
Demystifying SMAC
Trends What does it do? Relationship with work  
Cloud  The cloud increasingly contains 
more of the information and applications that people use Where we do the work  
Mobile  Mobile devices give people 
access to the cloud, to other data 
sources, and to each otherHow we get to work  
Analytics   Analytics help them make actionable sense of all that data What we work on, the meaning of work 
Social  Social media helps people reach out to colleagues and customer 
and provides insights about  
their preferencesWho we work with  
Source: Through the looking glass, PwC India, Emerging trends,  January 2013How strong is the digital IQ of 
Indian organisations?
We presented respondents with different scenarios to gauge 
if they’ve realised the importance of these technologies and 
aligned them closely to their overall organisational growth 
objectives. This is because companies can gain only through a systematic engagement with these technologies. We found 
that business leaders are actively involved in spearheading 
initiatives in technology, have a strong C-suite collaboration and consider themselves digitally astute.
Digitally astute
When asked about the level of their digital involvement, 85% of the Indian firms described their organisation 
as ‘digitally astute’. This is more than their US and UK 
counterparts at 54 and 69% respectively. Perhaps more interesting is the fact that all Indian firms with strong C-suite 
collaboration described their organisation as digitally 
astute. This indicates that C-suite alignment is an important characteristic for any company striving for a high digital IQ. 

PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     4  Indian firms emerge as highly ‘digitally astute’
To what extent would you describe your organisation as digitally astute?
India85%
66%
Australia54%
USA69%
UK62%
Russia
75%
China45%
Japan
IT and business as complementary factors 
An effective technology strategy cannot be created in a vacuum. 
It is vital for the CIO to collaborate with the C-suite while 
chalking out a roadmap. The starting point of such an activity 
is planning and Indian companies are increasingly working on these lines by having a multi-year roadmap for business 
strategies along with a plan to link IT to overall business 
practices. 
Among the survey participants, 71% said they have a single, 
multi-year roadmap as compared to 61% across the rest of the world. Additionally, IT leaders of 80% of the companies share the same detailed understanding of the corporate strategy as their 
business leaders. Our survey also found that in one out of every 
three Indian enterprises, the CIO has a strong relationship with other members across the C-suite: CEO, CFO, CMO, CRO, CSO, 
CISO, and business unit leaders. These C-suite relationships are 
an indication of the shift in perception of Indian companies with respect to IT; from support and cost centre to a business catalyst.Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story

PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     5  
Rest of the World
14%
No
25%
Yes
61%Don't knowDon't know
5%
No
18%
Yes
77%IndiaPlanning is critical for collaboration
Does a single, multi-year roadmap for the overall business strategy, exist within your organisation?
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India storyBusiness leaders drive IT efforts
A strong 75% of the respondents agree that either their CEO 
or senior-most business leader is an active champion of IT 
usage. The leaders’ active involvement in including IT as 
a part of strategic dialogue is likely to ensure that there is an organisation-wide understanding of the costs needed 
to implement such strategies. And this understanding is 
important in the accurate estimation of expenses and the consequent profit margins.They’re thinking and acting together
Business and IT leaders 
share the same detailed understanding of the corporate strategyCEO or senior-most business leader is an active champion in the use of information technology 
to achieve our strategyChina
UKUSAIndia
80%
45%57%
40%80%75%
42%
31%
We believe that technology plays a crucial role in 
amplifying the performance of any business. A company 
that continuously adopts technology, masters it and drives 
business integration is likely to have a sustainable advantage over its peers in the market.
5
5. PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ survey findings: Strengthening your digital conversations
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     6  How are companies using these 
technologies to advance their business objectives?
The panellists in PwC India’s CFO Conclave last year, 
discussed how the forces of SMAC (social, mobile, analytics 
and cloud) will help organisations ride the digital wave, 
manage their consumer chain and help unlock value for their stakeholders. Outperformers will have a distinct advantage 
as they will be more adept at converting data into insights. 
Equipped with these insights, they can develop products and services for specific customer segments and craft 
personalised marketing messages.
It is not surprising then to see that the respondents of the 
Digital IQ survey are using these technologies to reach out to 
some of their most significant stakeholders, customers and employees and are making significant investments to do so. 
The advent of these technologies is also helping them fine 
tune the operational effectiveness of companies. 
Indian companies are investing well in emerging technologies
Which of the technologies are you currently investing in?
30%42%60%40%48%48%40%57%
30%33%52%31%37%24%19%37%
Social media for internal communicationsSocial media for external communications 
with customers, suppliers Mobile technologies for employeesMobile technologies for customersData mining and analysisPublic cloud applicationsPublic cloud infrastructurePrivate cloud
Rest of the world India
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
New ways of reaching customers 
Companies are competing to understand customer needs 
and responses. Many have been dependent on traditional 
tools like market research and competitive benchmarking. 
However, these tools decipher mass, and not case-specific, consumer behaviour. And so, many companies are now 
venturing to explore new marketing platforms. Social media
Data now sits outside ERP systems and in multiple public 
spaces. Mining social media sites, blogs, consumer reviews and other such data sources is a new tool to find out what 
individual customers think and want. This is highlighted 
by the fact that 42% of Indian organisations are presently investing in social media for external communications 
with customers and suppliers. This is more than the global 
average of 33%. They also expect the use of social media to increase substantially over the next 12 months. Facebook 
(75%) seems to be the most preferred platform followed by 
LinkedIn (43%) and Twitter (40%).
Facebook is the most preferred medium in India
Do you expect the usage of each social media in your organisation for 
business purposes to increase, decrease or stay the same in the next  12 months? (respondents who answered ‘increase’)
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
Big data and analytics
Data collected from various such sources is generally 
unstructured and is referred to as big data.  It is a characterisation of the never-ending accumulation of all 
kinds of data, most of it unstructured. It describes data sets 
that are growing exponentially and are too large, too raw, or too unstructured for analysis using relational data analysis
6. 
Indian organisations are realising the importance of big 
data. Our survey results indicate that around every two out 
of three respondents believe that harnessing big data will give their organisations a competitive edge. Once again, this 
figure is more than the US (65%), the UK (56%) as well as the 
global average (61%).75%
43%40%
20%36%
31%28%
10%
Facebook LinkedIn Twitter XING
India Rest of the world
6.    Technology forecast: -Making sense of big data, 2010 Issue 3
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     7  
This sea of unstructured information can provide us insights 
into the pulse of consumer demand and trends, once it is 
simplified through analytics into actionable strategies. 
Analytics combined with a comprehensive social media strategy will become a critical competitive requirement 
for companies to co-create new products with various 
stakeholders, improve customer service and reduce cost. In our survey, 48% of the respondents are investing in 
data mining and analysis technologies; more than their 
counterparts in the US, the UK, China and Japan. 
Big data, big benefits
To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statements – 
Harnessing ‘Big data’ will give my organisation a competitive edge
27%38%
43%-5%
-5%-6%
-10%23%
IndiaRest of 
the world
Disagree Strongly disagree Agree
Agree strongly Don't know
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
Mobile technologies
Companies have also been increasing the use of mobile 
technologies to understand and meet customer needs. While, our survey results indicated that 78% of Indian firms are 
interacting with customers using mobile technology, the 
response is only 47% for the US, 51% for the UK, 46% for Australia and 21% for Japan. What is interesting is that in 
terms of investment, 40% of Indian firms are investing in 
mobile technologies for customers.Reaching customers through mobile technology
To what extent is your organisation interacting with customers using 
mobile technology?
0%7%10%5%43%35%
5%7%17%20%38%13%
Don't knowNot at all significantlyNot very significantlyNeither/norQuite significantlyVery significantly
Rest of the World India
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
Empowering employees
The CEO of Apple, Tim Cook, has remarked that 94% of 
Fortune 500 firms have either already given iPads to their 
staff or are in the process of arranging iPads for them7 . 
Though not all companies would like to believe in a similar practice, most of them would not mind if employees use 
their own phones or mobile devices without posing a threat to the security and integrity of the workplace. Reinforcing 
a similar argument, PwC, in one of its studies, states that 
when employees with smartphones can download apps and do their jobs better than the tools provided by the office IT 
department, it becomes important for companies to execute 
mobile strategies keeping employees in mind
8.  
Employees of a company are the single-most important direct touch-points for consumers. They work towards organisational objectives by engaging with customers, 
intensely and constantly and sometimes across varied 
geographies. So, it was not surprising to see in our survey, that most companies have not only realised this aspect, but 
are also equipping their employees with mobile technologies. 
Naturally, 60% of the companies are planning to invest in mobile technologies for employees. Around 40% of the 
companies are building required capabilities using the help 
of third parties. However, 35% feel that their employees are already equipped with the required mobile technology to deliver products and services. 
7.   Seizing the mobility moment – Part 2, PwC, September 2012
8.   Ibid
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India story     8  Employees equipped with mobile technology
How equipped are the employees in your organisation to deliver 
products and services using mobile technology? 
6%3%6%27%39%18%
2%5%8%8%42%35%
Don't knowWe have nothing at present 
but have no needWe have nothing at present,
but recognise a needWe have some things we need and 
are building the rest ourselves We have some things we need and are 
primarily using 3rd parties to build the rest We have everything we need 
on a mobile platform
India Rest of the World
Base: All respondents (1,108); India (60)
Source: PwC’s 5th Global Digital IQ Survey -The India story
Improving operational efficiency
SMAC and other emerging technologies create the 
possibility of gains in operational efficiency. For instance, 
cloud computing has the potential to accelerate business 
innovation, improve business agility and reduce costs. Leading organisations are realising that cloud computing is 
far more than a sophisticated   IT solution. It is in fact a better 
business solution. 
Indian organisations are investing in cloud computing 
technologies more than their counterparts in the US, the 
UK, China and Australia. While 57% of Indian organisations are investing in private cloud, 40% and 48% are investing 
in public cloud infrastructure and public cloud applications 
respectively. Private cloud can also be instrumental in ensuring data security, protecting consumer data and 
intellectual property. 
Employees equipped with mobile technology
How equipped are the employees in your organisation to deliver 
products and services using mobile technology? 
Nurture and facilitate innovation
Faster time to deliver (concept to market)
Simplification in conducting business
Increased velocity of processes
Faster and informed decision making
Adaptive to changing business environmentEmerging technology trends
Cloud computingMobilitySocial media
Big data analyticsLet’s begin our digital conversation
The survey gives us an insight into the efforts of companies 
that are trying to embed IT in all areas of their business. 
Companies are engaging with technology in a systematic 
way and are forming a comprehensive IT strategy through collaboration. However, while moving towards higher  
digital IQ, companies are grappling with a number of 
questions. Here are a few based on our conversations  with the executives.
• How can IT better align with changing economic and 
market structures, volatility in the global economies  and evolving business needs?
• Are you aware of the ways to understand and adopt emerging technologies, which will make  
you competitive?
• Are you effectively equipped to gather, understand and act on data about customers and employees and protect 
intellectual property at the same time?
• What are the implications of moving to a cloud 
computing service model from an accounting and  
tax perspective?
• Are you prepared with new data management and 
storage technologies needed to reap the benefits of  
big data?
• Are you equipped to seize business value from SMAC, over and above its IT benefits?
• Are you actively involved in developing your 
organisation’s digital IQ? Do you champion the cause of 
IT in your organisation?
• How can you exploit strategic opportunities while 
managing business risks?
• Are IT investments being made with overarching business goals in mind, or are these decisions happening 
in a silo? Is the IT strategy communicated effectively within the organisation?
About PwC 
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please 
see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
To have a deeper conversation about how topics related to 
digital IQ may affect your business, please contact:
Debdas Sen
Technology Consulting Leader 
+91 33 4404 6404
debdas.sen@in.pwc.com
Ritesh Pal
+91 33 4404 3204
ritesh.pal@in.pwc.comTapobrata Das Roy
+91 22 6669 1418
tapobrata.das.roy@in.pwc.comArnab BasuExecutive Director, Emerging Technologies+91 33 2341 4290
arnab.basu@in.pwc.com
Rajesh Rajan 
Associate Director, Emerging Technologies 
+91 80 4079 4003
rajesh.rajan@in.pwc.com
Authors
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 509 - May 2013 PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
