Title: pwc_the-holy-grail-of-indigenisation
Date Published: 2013-07-01 16:10:19+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_the-holy-grail-of-indigenisation.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

www.pwc.in
June 2013
Introduction  08  | Landscape: Defence industrial base  09 | 
Next generation technologies  12 | Challenges in indigenisation  
14 | Participation of MSMEs and their challenges  17 
The holy grail of 
indigenisation
Achieving self-reliance in 
defence equipment

2 PwC
It is a pleasure to learn that the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of 
India is organising the 6th International Conference on Aerospace and Defence. The 
theme of the Conference, ‘Improving of Indigenisation towards self-reliance’ is timely  
and relevant.
Aerospace and Defence are two of the core sectors that are crucial to strengthening the 
defence of any nation. Fast paced technological changes are taking place in these fields. 
However, the endeavour of both the public and the private sectors must be to modernise 
the defence systems through maximum possible indigenisation. 
Various agencies are making efforts at indigenous development of latest equipment and 
weapon systems. All these agencies must interact on a regular basis with end-users for 
timely induction of such weapon systems and equipment.
I am sure that the Conference will discuss ways and means to accelerate the pace of 
indigenisation in the defence and aerospace sectors. 
I wish all the delegates at the Conference a warm and a pleasant stay at our country.
Here is wishing the deliberations at the Conference all success.
A.K Anthony
Hon’ble Minister of Defence
Government of IndiaMessage
On behalf of ASSOCHAM, I am pleased to announce the sixth international 
conference on Aerospace & Defence for increasing indigenisation towards self-
reliance to be held on 26th June, 2013 at Hotel Shangrila, New Delhi.
ASSOCHAM’s National Council of Defence has been proactively working in close 
coordination with the Ministry of Defence, Government of India and is committed to 
making the Indian Defence Sector more robust. ASSOCHAM appreciates the efforts 
being made by Ministry of Defence and specifically by its Acquisition Wing towards 
rendering the defence procurement procedures more conducive to indigenisation. 
The new DPP 2013 has helped in promoting participation of the Indian Private 
Sector and adoption/ development of technology, to enable the Private Sector in 
contributing to Indian Defence programs in a meaningful way.
While the Ministry of Defence initiatives definitely boosts optimism, there are still 
certain elements which need the attention of Ministry of Defence. This seminar is 
intended to highlight these elements. 
For a meaningful two-way discussion the Ministry of Defence has very graciously 
accepted to chair the various sessions of this seminar.
We are also pleased to release the report on  ‘The holy grail of indigenisation: 
Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment’. We would like to thank 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, our Knowledge Partner for this conference, for this 
excellent report that highlights the key issues and challenges in increasing 
indigenisation to achieve self-reliance in manufacturing defence equipment.
PC Bhasin, Vice Admiral (Retd.) , PVSM, AVSM, VSM
Chairman,
ASSOCHAM Defence Council
Message
The recent announcement made by the Ministry of Defence, Government of India on 
Defence Procurement Procedure 2013 on Capital Procurement highlights the need for 
self reliance towards indigenisation of the Indian Defence Industry. 
Ministry of Defence has promulgated the Defence Procurement Procedure 2013 which 
aims to balance the competing requirements of expediting capital procurement, 
developing a robust indigenous Defence sector and conforming to the highest standards 
of transparency, probity and public accountability. While laying a strong emphasis on 
promoting indigenisation and creating a level playing field for the Indian Industry
Any Defence program success or failure is because of supply chain execution and it is 
precisely here that the Indian Small and Medium companies will play a critical role in 
the entire supply chain for the Aerospace and Defence sector.
ASSOCHAM has taken the thought leadership position by inviting the industry leaders 
and the decision makers on various forums for creating a better understanding about 
this Sector. We are very confident that the ASSOCHAM’s National Council on Defence 
is organizing the 6th ASSOCHAM International Conference on Aerospace & Defence 
with the theme “Improving of Indigenisation towards Self-Reliance” for creating a 
better understanding in further strengthening the domestic supply chain and local 
manufacturing in the A&D sector in India.
We believe that there is a significant business opportunity for the India Defence 
companies particularly the Small and Medium Enterprises who are known to develop 
niche technologies for the Defence and Home Land security. We at ASSOCHAM believe 
that for developing niche technologies within the country Government needs to review 
the current FDI norms in the Defence Sector. 
We thank the Ministry of Defence and also Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, 
Ministry, for officially supporting the 6th ASSOCHAM International Conference on 
Aerospace & Defence and also guiding us. We would also like to thank our knowledge 
partner PricewaterhouseCoopers for mapping the critical issues and suggesting the 
remedial measures in achieving indigenisation
The Recommendations from this Conference will be forwarded to the concerned 
Ministries which may set the roadmap for further developing the Defence Industry 
within the country.
With best wishes,
D S Rawat 
Secretary General 
ASSOCHAMMessage
Message
India undoubtedly has potential to become one of the key players on the 
international stage in the competitive Aerospace Industry, domain of highly 
developed countries for decades. Fundamental global economic and political 
decisions hinge on how far India has progressed and how quickly our highly 
complex country can become a global powerhouse.
There is a very clear linkage between a country’s economic growth and its 
aviation industry. There are encouraging signs of the aerospace industry 
emerging as a major contributor to our self reliance and export business. At 
the same time, there are signs of domestic industry enhancing its capabilities 
through joint ventures and technology tie-ups. 
India continues to be one of the top Defence spending countries in the world, 
with substantial numbers of signed capital acquisition contracts in the recent 
past and many more in the pipeline. With the increasing liberalization of 
Defence Procurement Procedure as well as the recently announced focus on 
Make India programs, there would be substantial impetus to domestic Industry 
for growing at fast pace.
Fundamental strength in the Indian Industry already exists, in form of a large 
number of SME’s and MSME’s, who are transforming themselves into major 
players in this sector. If they and large business houses can collaborate to form 
a robust Indian Aerospace & Defence eco system, India would surely create a 
mark on international stage, sooner than later. It is time for Government and 
Private enterprises to come together and become a key part of Global Aerospace 
Supply Chain. 
Industry bodies play a crucial role in creating and sustaining an atmosphere 
crucial for industry growth. ASSOCHAM has been doing an admirable work by 
actively contributing in this area.
Wishing team ASSOCHAM a success.
Kamesh Gupta
Co-Chairman
ASSOCHAM Defence Council
We are pleased to present the discussion paper on ‘ The holy grail of indigenisation: 
Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment’ at the 6th ASSOCHAM conference on 
Aerospace and Defence. Characterised by a high growth potential, India’s aerospace and 
defence industry is important to the country’s strategic and economic interests. 
The A&D value-chain is long and complex and our manufacturing capabilities can at 
best be described as patchy with small pockets of excellence at many levels, but without 
comprehensive coverage. The defence procurement procedures (DPP) have undergone 
several revisions in the past to promote indigenisation. However, none have been as 
direct and comprehensive as those announced in its latest version. The most important 
of these is laying down a hierarchy of acquisition programmes with those that will 
make domestic private companies the primes by giving them highest priority while 
categorizing defence procurements. Though the revised DPP is encouraging and seeks 
to invite larger participation by domestic players, the government is still a long way from 
achieving its stated objective of broad basing domestic capabilities by including the 
private sector in defence production.
There is a need to streamline policy contradictions for creating synergies and an 
eco-system that stimulates investments in building domestic capabilities across the 
entire supply-chain. We trust this paper will provide valuable insight to existing and 
prospective investors on the opportunities and challenges confronting indigenisation. 
We also thank ASSOCHAM for giving us this opportunity to present the perspectives and  
opportunities for the sector in India.
Dhiraj Mathur  
Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice
PwC IndiaMessage
8 PwC
Introduction
Across the world, the aerospace and defence (A&D) sector has always been 
associated with cutting-edge research and development that has spawned some 
of the most game-changing inventions to have impacted our lives. An excellent 
example is the internet.  These innovations are generally a state mandate, 
employing a battery of scientists and engineers.
As India continues with a massive acquisition programme (that started over 10 
years ago) to provide its armed forces with the latest and best equipment, it is 
pertinent to ponder over reducing its extreme dependence on imports by building 
indigenous capabilities across the entire value-chain – from research, design 
and development to manufacturing, integration, maintenance and repair. The 
government being the sole regulator needs to design solutions for what is a tightly 
regulated monopsony market. The regulator and its companies account for 
almost all of the limited indigenous production.
Laudable as the government initiatives are, it must be borne in mind that 
domestic capability cannot be built merely by addressing RFPs to Indian 
companies. There are multiple areas that need attention–funding, R&D, 
taxation, protection of intellectual property, foreign investment and 
collaboration, the import and export regimes. There is need for a comprehensive 
review of all of these to create synergies rather than contradictions and an eco-
system that stimulates investments in building domestic capabilities across the 
entire supply-chain.
Keeping in view the above background, this paper assesses the current status of 
the Indian defence industrial base, requirement of next-generation technologies 
and analyses the role the new DPP can play in accelerating the pace of 
indigenisation. This paper also attempts to identify various operational and 
regulatory challenges impacting indigenisation. 
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          9
Landscape: 
Defence 
industrial baseThe Indian A&D market presents an attractive and significant 
opportunity for Indian and foreign companies. India allocates 
about 2.1% of its GDP towards defence spending, of which 40% 
is allocated to capital acquisitions. India ranks among the top 
10 countries in the world in terms of military expenditure yet 
imports 70% of defence equipments.
Sector overview
Indian A&D manufacturing is dominated by DPSUs and 
ordnance factories which contribute about 90% of the total 
manufacturing output. 
DPSUs contribute about 63% in the defence manufacturing output 
of the country. Their output has grown at a CAGR of 14% from 
2002 to 2012.  While they have enjoyed significant protection 
from the government, it must also be acknowledged that their 
growth has been constrained by this ownership. Moreover, they 
have grown during the long period that this country faced denial 
regimes. DPSUs have been unable to expand with the orders 
placed and each has order books that extend well beyond 15 to 
20 years. Co-opting the private sector will, over time, reduce the 
production and delivery period.
DPSUs have played a critical role in building a domestic industrial 
base in this sector as they typically outsource 20 to 25% of their 
production requirements to private companies. The leading DPSUs 
include Hindustan Aeronautical Ltd, Bharat Electronics Ltd, 
Mazagon Dock Ltd, and Bharat Earth Movers Ltd.  
The 41 ordnance factories are spread over 26 different locations 
and employ close to 1,25,000 people . These factories manufacture 
a wide spectrum of products from weapons (small calibre, mortar 
equipment, medium calibre and large calibre), ammunition (small  
medium and large calibre, mortar bombs, grenades, signalling 
smoke, rocket bombs, demolition, explosives, propellants and 
chemicals), vehicles (armoured and transport), clothing, general 
stores and equipment for the defence services.Revenue Capital
Type Units Revenue 2011-
12(INR crore)
DPSU 9 28,667
Ordnance 41 12,390Indian defence budget (Figures in billion USD)
10 PwCEfforts to indigenise
Defence sector manufacturing was opened to private and foreign 
participation in 2001. Since then, there has been increased 
focus on indigenisation. The private sector, which contributes 
approximately 10% of the total manufacturing output, has 
seen a significant change in its role. From a supplier of raw 
material, components and sub-systems, Indian companies are 
now progressing to become partners in manufacturing and 
integrating complete equipment and systems. Till date, as per the 
data available, close to 180 licences have been granted which is 
reflective of the current manufacturing capability of the Indian 
enterprises. Some of the established Indian companies engaged 
in defence manufacturing or rendering engineering, design and 
testing services include Larsen & Toubro, Mahindra Defence 
Systems, Tata Advanced Systems Ltd and Tata Motor Defence 
Systems in addition to over 6000 MSMEs such as Alpha Design 
Technologies, TAAL, Axis Aerospace and Centum Electronics.
The government has initiated the process of transforming the 
A&D sector by taking policy decisions to develop an indigenous 
manufacturing base, consequently reducing the dependence on 
imports. Progressive revisions in the DPP clearly highlight the 
gradual shift in focus towards indigenisation as the government 
attempts to utilise the Indian industry's cost advantages, 
availability of talent, manufacturing capabilities and IT 
competitiveness.   
DPP 2013 clearly focuses on creating a conducive  environment 
for achieving indigenisation by stipulating preferred 
categorisation for buy (Indian), buy and make (Indian),  make 
categories and allowing the private industry to participate in 
maintenance transfer of technology (ToT) thereby providing 
a level playing field to it with foreign OEMs and DPSUs. This 
mandate will compel Indian companies and foreign OEMs to 
revisit their India strategies and will most surely stimulate 
increased strategic and technology partnerships between 
them. The government has also been successful in bringing 
much-needed clarity in the licensing process by releasing the 
defence product list and by clarifying that dual use products do 
not need licensing. However, the procedure for arriving at the 
value of indigenous content seems to be complex and requires 
deliberation as there will be many practical challenges in 
compliance.  
A point of concern is a recent office memorandum issued by the 
Department of Defence Production to keep in abeyance certain 
‘service’ related paragraphs in offset guidelines which raises 
significant concern on the fate of the eligibility of services as 
an offset avenue.  India is a pioneer in rendering engineering, 
design, testing and software development services and hopefully 
the government will seek representations from all stakeholders 
before taking a final decision on the eligibility of services as a 
positive offset avenue.Areas of development
Project management capabilities
The defence manufacturing set-up has traditionally faced 
constraints due to inadequate technology and in delivering 
projects within the budgeted cost and time e.g. the delay in the 
‘Light Combat Aircraft Tejas’ programme which took close to 
three decades for completion resulted in a 10-fold increase in 
project cost. 
An analysis of the employee productivity reveals that the 
defence sector has a long way to go to meet  benchmarks from 
the domestic and global private sector. The Annual Survey 
of Industries, conducted by the Ministry of Finance revealed 
that the defence industry output of 1,539 (INR thousand per 
employee per year) was considerably lower than the average  
of 3,000 (INR thousand  per employee per year) across  
various industries. 
The DPSUs and ordnance factories have often faced challenges 
towards  scaling  up production capability and to match global 
standards of quality and delivery. However, sectors with 
dominant private participation have over time been more 
agile in building capacity and adapting new technology and 
delivering to international standards of quality. For example, in 
the automobile industry, global companies like Toyota, Suzuki, 
General Motors, Ford and Honda and in telecommunication, 
majors like Nokia and LG have all set up production bases 
in India. Due to the limited share of private and foreign 
participation in the defence sector, the industrial growth 
trajectory has been sluggish in increasing capacity and  
absorbing technology. 
Technology
India’s historical dependence on imports may possibly be 
one reason for the limited focus on developing intellectual 
property. Presently, access to technology and in-house capability 
development has been a bottleneck for manufacturing. ToT 
carried out by global OEMs is limited in access for domestic 
players as the DPSUs have invariably been selected for 
production purposes. The 26% cap on FDI also disincentivises 
investment and ToT. 
Talent development and retention
India has a large pool of qualified scientists and engineers 
leveraged by a growing number of foreign OEMs who have set 
up engineering and design centres. Anecdotal evidence suggests 
that the growing presence of these OEMs has put pressure on the 
DPSUs in attracting and retaining talent.  
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          11Industry SWOT analysis
Strengths
• Large domestic market
• Existing manufacturing infrastructure of DPSUs contributing 
approximately 63% of manufacturing output
• Strong R&D set-up for the Defence Research and 
Development Organisation (DRDO)
• Large pool of talented scientists, engineers and skilled 
manpower
Weaknesses
• High dependence on import of capital equipment
• Low absorption and ToT by DPSUs and ordnance factories
• Limited indigenous machine tool building capability
• Talent attraction and retention
• Restrictive and contradictory policy regime
Opportunities for growth
• Shrinking defence budgets in the US and Europe
• The offset policy can stimulate creation of a domestic value-
chain
• Allowing private participation in MToT will create domestic 
industry in MRO 
Threats
• Lack of a level playing field due to unfavourable policies for 
domestic private players has thwarted their development.
• Competition from emerging economies for OEM investments 
and ToT
• Adversaries also investing in acquisition and development 
of a defence industrial base while turning self-sufficient in 
production and technology
Research and development  
With a vast network of institutions and more than 50 labs 
across the country, the DRDO is the pioneer R&D agency in 
the Indian defence sector and has to its credit a number of 
spectacular successes, particularly in its missile development and 
aeronautical system programme. Other government agencies  
like the CSIR, the Department of Space (DoS), the MOES and  
the DST are also involved in R&D while outsourcing to  
domestic MSMEs.
The private sector has had a limited share in the R&D space 
of the defence sector. However, there have been a few success 
stories like Tata Power’s Strategic Electronics Division that has 
partnered with the MoD, the armed forces and the DRDO  
since 1974 in the development and supply of state-of-the-art 
defence systems.Challenges facing R&D
• The Indian defence budget allocates approximately 6% 
towards R&D spend as compared to 15% by France and 12% 
by the US.
• High upfront R&D and establishment costs with long 
gestation periods for realising R&D benefits and the absence 
of government sponsored programmes have deterred private 
involvement and investments in R&D. 
• India is faced with limited expertise in designing critical 
equipment in advanced technology due to lack of ToT from 
global OEMs.
• India lacks adequate infrastructure and trained human 
capital to support R&D initiatives. 
• End users of technology and equipment along with 
manufacturers are currently not fully involved in the decision-
making process with key R&D agencies like the DRDO.
• Existing agencies have not been very successful in sharing 
R&D capabilities with private players.
• There is hardly any competition within R&D agencies 
and private players for developing weapon systems and 
technologies.
12 PwC
Next-generation 
technologiesThe A&D sector has spawned cutting-edge technology. Constant 
improvements are taking place in military equipment and better 
technologies are being developed around the globe. India has 
long been considered a potential hub for R&D because of its 
vast talent pool of engineers and scientists. Despite this, the 
country is lagging behind in terms of technology development 
and increasing imports show that it is not utilising its purchasing 
power to leapfrog into niche areas. 
A key requirement for private participation is visibility of the 
technology requirements of the armed forces. The technological 
capabilities which India needs were first spelt out in the 
Technology Perspective and Capability Roadmap 2010 (TPCR) 
and subsequently in TPCR 2013, which are released as an 
unclassified version of the LTIPP. These are  one of the first 
efforts to provide the domestic industry with an overview of 
what the armed services hope to acquire by the middle of the 
next 15 years. The document’s stated intent has been to drive the 
technology and development process of prospective developers, 
contractors and bidders in India and abroad, and to ‘provide 
industry an overview’ of the MoD’s objectives and enable the 
defence industry to plan their R&D roadmap. 
The TPCRs  thus identify strategies for attaining national 
defence objectives such as strategic deterrence, full-spectrum 
capability, sea control, aerospace capabilities, special operations, 
logistics, defence cooperation, media, personnel, leadership 
and use of technology. The capabilities envisaged for the army 
include optimising force application capability, individual 
protective equipment for troops, enhancing detection and 
decontamination equipment in quality and quantity, developing 
integrated field shelters, addressing logistic voids and enhancing 
logistic capability, enhancing mobilisation capability, C4I2SAR 
capability, night-fighting capability, developing IW capability, 
improving anti-armour, SAM, ASM and SSM capabilities, 
introducing and developing the ‘land warrior’ concept, aviation 
quick reaction capability, indigenisation of bridging technology, 
improving communication to effect manpower savings and 
derive maximum benefit from the telecom network, improving 
and developing wide area network and satellite communication 
network, enhancing battle space awareness and force protection 
capability. Similarly, it elucidates the requirements of the navy 
and the air force.
With increasing technological sophistication in defence, 
skill requirements of the industry are specific and require 
considerable time, money and human resources to develop. 
Thus, TPCRs are a welcome step. However, the extent to 
which the industry can utilise these  TPCRs with the details 
available remains a big question as it does not provide relevant 
information on the basis of which industry can chalk out its 
business plans. The industry needs adequate information to 
create a technology roadmap by identifying the product that will 
be the focus, the technology drivers, the alternatives and the 
timelines. Thus, the concept of indigenisation can be facilitated 
if the contents of the TPCR have adequate details and are in 
consonance with a well-planned defence manufacturing policy 
based on ‘product strategy’.
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          13It is added that measures are also required to promote R&D 
and greater coordination between research institutes like 
the DRDO, universities and private industry players. The 
educational institutions are a rich source of human capital, 
which can be effectively leveraged to help the sector jumpstart 
its development. In the current environment of blanket secrecy, 
it is difficult to develop meaningful partnerships with academia 
or private institutions. There are a large number of niche areas 
where the nation’s existing talent and low-cost base can be 
leveraged to attain a competitive position in developing next-
generation technologies.
Stealth 
With the advent of and improvements in sonar, infra-red and 
radar technologies, it has become increasingly difficult to 
remain undetected by the enemy. Countries around the world 
are trying to develop ways to reduce the visibility of their troops 
and machinery for tactical and operational advantages. Stealth 
technology was developed as a direct consequence. It aims to 
reduce the visibility of troops, vehicles or aircraft using a variety 
of techniques. Some of these involve design, shape, camouflage, 
radar absorbing materials and ways to reduce the infrared 
trail. Stealth aircraft are probably the best example of the 
advancements in stealth technology. They are adapted in certain 
ground vehicles and are also an important part of designing 
a submarine. In India, the advanced medium combat aircraft 
(AMCA) and fifth generation fighter aircraft (FGFA) will possess 
stealth technology.
Robotics
The importance of robots for the armed forces is immense. 
Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and unmanned ground 
vehicles (UGVs) are examples of robots increasingly being used 
by countries both for reconnaissance and attack. Robots are used 
in a variety of applications where the job is either too tedious or 
dangerous for people. The DRDO is developing an unmanned 
combat air vehicle (UCAV) called ‘Rustom’ for the Indian 
military. It has the potential to be used for reconnaissance in the 
Naxalite infested areas which will give troops a clear idea of the 
dangers.
Air independent propulsion (AIP) 
The AIP technology helps keep submarines underwater for 
longer periods of time. Submarines have to surface or use a 
snorkel to access atmospheric oxygen and to release exhaust. 
This makes them vulnerable to detection by enemy forces 
compromising the safety of the submarine. The DRDO is in the 
process of developing this technology. Two of the Scorpène class 
submarines bought from the French company DCNS may also be 
fitted with AIP technology.•	Nanotechnology, composite 
material and metal 
research
•	Night vision
•	Electronic miniaturisation
•	Textile technology
•	Defensive systems in 
satellites 
•	Cyber warfare•	Increase FDI
•	Promote R&D
•	Allow offset for R&D in 
leading institutions like the 
IITs and IIS
•	Improve transparency 
and lay down a detailed 
roadmap in TPCRs
•	Incentives for development Niche areas 
for next-gen 
technologies
Measures to 
support ToT
Directed energy weapons (DEWs)
DEWs emit energy in an aimed direction without a projectile. 
This energy can be of various forms--particles with mass, sound 
and electromagnetic radiation. This is a developing technology, 
yet to be used effectively and being considered for operations like 
protecting the earth from asteroids. In time, this technology is 
expected to develop because of its many operational advantages. 
The DRDO has reportedly started work on DEWs such as a 
25-kilowatt laser system to destroy incoming missiles in their 
terminal stage and a 100-kilowatt solid-state laser system to take 
out missiles in their boost phase itself.
14 PwC
Challenges in 
indigenisationDefence procurement procedure 2013: 
Catalyst for indigenisation
The revised DPP has provisions to promote transparency, 
accountability and accelerating the procurement processes. The 
key relevant highlights of the revised DPP are as follows: 
• Prioritisation of ‘buy (Indian)’ and ‘buy and make (Indian)’ 
for capital acquisitions under defence procurement procedure
• Maintenance ToT (MToT) will no longer be through 
nomination  but through bidding 
• Advance consultations for ‘make’ procedure
• Simplification of ‘buy  and  make (Indian)’ procedure
• Clear definition of indigenous content
• Ensuring faster progress in ‘make’ and ‘buy and  make 
(Indian) cases
• Enhanced delegation of financial powers for capital 
acquisitions 
• Powers to DAC to approve all deviations from DPP
The key change in DPP 2013 has been the stipulation of a 
hierarchy of categorisation of any new defence procurement 
under ‘buy (Indian)’ and ‘buy and make (Indian)’ categories. 
‘Buy (Indian)’ requires a minimum 30% of indigenous content 
on cost-basis. However, ‘buy and  make (Indian)’ must have 
a minimum 50% indigenous content on cost-basis. It further 
provides that apart from the overall indigenous content being 
at least 30%/ 50% of the total contract value, a minimum 30% 
/ 50% indigenous content will also be required in (i) basic cost 
of equipment; (ii) cost of manufacturers’ recommended list of 
spares; and (iii) cost of special maintenance tools and special test 
equipment taken together.
DPP 2013 also lays down the method for computation of 
indigenous content. It broadly prescribes the cost of the 
equipment to be reduced by the cost of imported materials, 
cost of services received from non-Indian entities at all  tiers. 
The definition of indigenous content in spirit is commendable 
and seeks to scan through the indigenous content in the 
entire supply-chain.  However, ensuring compliance with the 
requirement at all the tiers is going to be extremely cumbersome 
for the entire industry.  The indigenous content as it is currently 
worded may also be open to varied interpretation, example, 
the meaning of non-Indian entities, direct and indirect costs 
of services etc.  Further, the Indian companies, even if they 
are indigenously manufacturing the core equipment, may get 
disqualified on a strict application of the definition of indigenous 
content. This may lead to re-categorisation of the procurements 
under ‘buy and make with ToT’or ‘buy global programmes and 
eventually defeat the objectives of the changes.
The affirmation of indigenous content at the trial stage is 
impractical and requires re-consideration.  It is acknowledged 
that India does not have the current know-how and the 
infrastructure to manufacture high-end defence equipments and 
therefore, expecting the requirement to be fulfilled at the time of 
trials is unreasonable and impractical.
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          15In summary, while the recent initiatives taken by the DAC in 
revamping the defence procurement procedure are welcome, 
however, there will be challenges in complying with some of 
these new provisions requiring  further deliberation.  Further, 
though the DPP seeks to provide a level playing field to Indian 
private players, there are areas which are heavily lopsided in 
favour of DPSUs. A case in point being the ERV benefit being 
extended only to DPSUs in ab-initio single vendor cases or when 
nominated as a production agency.
Defence product list: Simplifying the 
licence regime
The industry has long been grappling with the issue of industrial 
licence. This has finally been clarified and a licence is not 
required for dual use goods. However, necessary sensitisation 
of this position is required so that there is consistency between 
the policy and its implementation by various arms of the 
government. It is also interesting to note that though the defence 
product list has been put up on the MoD’s website, it refers to a 
‘dual-use’ list which has not been made available to the public, 
hence providing only partial clarity.
FDI in defence: An imaginary bogey
The role of FDI in building a domestic industry and creating an 
enabling environment for transfer of technology from foreign 
OEMs cannot be over emphasised. The 26% cap has completely 
failed as the total inflows of FDI in the last 10 years in this sector 
have been a meagre  five million USD and a handful of joint 
ventures, compared to over 280 billion USD that the country 
has received during the same period. Based on the experience in 
sectors such as automobiles, IT and other manufacturing sectors, 
there is an urgent need to allow 100% FDI in this sector and 
address security concerns separately as in most countries.
Concerns about IP protection  
Protecting IP is a key concern in this sector and foreign OEMs are 
reluctant to transfer technology because of the 26% FDI cap as 
well as a perception of inadequate IP protection.
Given below is an  overview of relevant intellectual property 
laws:
Indian Patents Act, 1970:  Contains provisions with respect to 
grant of patent (an exclusive right granted for a new product or 
a process involving an inventive step and capable of industrial 
application) in India.
Designs Act, 2000:  Aimed at protection of designs, it contains 
provisions in relation to registration of designs, copyright in 
registered designs, etc.
Copyright Act, 1957:  Protects, inter alia, the rights in literary 
work, which includes computer programmes. It contains 
provisions, inter-alia, regarding what constitutes copyright and 
term of copyright, ownership of copyrights and rights of the 
owner, registration of copyrights, infringement of copyrights, 
remedies for it, etc.   Despite the age-old debate of what constitutes optimal IP norms 
for a developing country, usually challenges faced in relation 
to the transfer  and licensing of technology in India do not arise 
due to any inadequacies in the legal framework of IP laws but 
due to the contractual terms governing such transfer between 
the seller and the buyer. For instance, contracts for transfer of 
technology, may not balance the risk between the buyer and 
seller or in relation to the defence sector, may be interpreted in 
the context of the prevailing procurement policy and the buyer’s 
ultimate obligations thereunder, thus sometimes disregarding 
the contractual rights of the seller. In the event of a breach 
of contract by the buyer, the seller may also face practical 
challenges in enforcing its rights and remedies, like termination 
of contract, against the buyer if he or she has already absorbed 
the technology or know-how for innovative activity in a given 
technological area.
The general apprehension of foreign suppliers that Indian 
courts do not enforce contracts effectively and will  adopt a 
pro-domestic market approach when determining intellectual 
property rights disputes between a foreign supplier and an 
Indian buyer and that wariness around IP rights in India is low, 
coupled with incidents of Indian courts rejecting requests of  
patent grants of a foreign company (as in a recent Supreme Court 
precedent  in the pharma sector) creates a perception that the IP 
environment in India is vague, uncertain and unsafe. This along 
with the restricted FDI cap of 26% with no significant control 
over the company’s affairs deters OEMs from sharing critical 
technology with Indian manufacturers. 
Technology suppliers may thus need to consider steps to 
minimise the risk of losing IP while participating in the A&D 
business in India by ensuring that the IP rights in relation 
to the technology being shared are clearly understood by 
all stakeholders and suitably articulated in the contracts, 
particularly identifying and addressing issues not covered by any 
domestic legislation, checking for any possible conflicts with the 
policy and providing for potential violations of the IP rights.
16 PwCIndirect tax
The government’s initiative for indigenisation in the A&D 
industry in India, through the DPP 2013 requires complementary 
initiatives under the indirect tax regime. The focus of the 
initiative under the indirect tax regime can be on rationalisation 
of the tax structure and promoting greater value-additions in 
India. The current tax and duty regime in the country makes the 
Indian manufacturer uncompetitive and directly works against 
the indigenisation policy of the government. 
Considering the multiple levies of indirect taxes in India, 
following are the key note comments on indigenisation in the 
A&D industry:
Customs duties:  Effective rate of customs on the import of 
goods is 28.85 % (peak rate of customs). Subject to prescribed 
conditions, a majority of goods imported in relation to defence 
and commercial airlines are exempt from customs duties . For 
instance, customs duty is exempt on imports of aircrafts and 
parts imported for MRO related activities. 
Key note:  With respect to the defence sector, these exemptions 
are typically available where the MoD or its contractors (private 
companies) are importers and unavailable where goods are 
imported by Indian offset partners for further processing and 
delivery to the ministry. This militates against the indigenisation 
policy.	The	benefits	under	these	exemptions	are	not	available	even	
to goods imported by sub - contractors of foreign OEMs. Besides 
this, there are no such general exemptions from customs duty on the 
import of goods for use in the manufacture of defence related goods. 
Appropriate changes to remove this anomaly must be proposed to 
the government .
Excise duty:  Effective excise duty rate is 12.36% (inclusive of 
education cess) on manufacturing activity. Exemption from 
excise duty is available for aircrafts, if sold to the government or 
to commercial airlines engaged in specified activities.   
Key note:  Goods supplied against international competitive bidding 
(ICB) are exempt from excise duty subject to prescribed conditions. 
The	challenge	is	to	ensure	that	these	benefits	actually	accrue.	With	
the government’s plan on indigenisation, a blanket exemption needs 
to be carved out for the supply of goods to the A&D industry. VAT and CST:  While an inter-state sale of goods is subject to 
central sales tax (CST), intra-state sale of goods is subject to VAT. 
The CST rate is 2 % if the prescribed statutory form (i.e. Form C) 
is issued by the purchaser. If no forms are provided, the VAT rate 
applicable in the originating state of the seller will be applicable. 
For most goods, the VAT rate ranges from 5 to 15 % depending 
on the nature of goods. Sale of spares under the MRO operations 
are charged to VAT which range  from 5 to 15% across  states. 
Typically, airline operators do not have the option to buy it at 
concessional rates of CST against usage of Form C as they do not 
meet the eligibility criteria for issuance of Form C.
Key note:  No general exemptions or concessions are available on the 
sale of goods to defence and  commercial airlines. Accordingly, the 
relevant state VAT legislation should be examined and the possibility 
of special dispensation if required from the state government 
should be explored so that the domestic procurement of goods is 
economically at par with imports. Participants in India’s MRO 
industry believe that the tax regime needs to change in order to 
enable India to positioning itself as an MRO hub. 
Service tax:  With effect from 1 July 2012, the service tax regime 
in India had undergone a significant change whereby service 
tax has been made applicable on all services provided in India 
unless they fall under the negative list or are specifically exempt 
from payment of service tax. In addition, in terms of the recently 
introduced Place of Provision of Service Rules, 2012 the MRO 
services may not qualify as export of services from India since the 
aircraft will need to be in India for repair. Further, the service tax 
exemption for services provided to the government in relation 
to repair or maintenance of an aircraft has been withdrawn with 
effect from 1 April 2013.
Key note:  The burden of input taxes is reduced to the extent of 
service tax credit admissible to MRO customers. With the proposed 
procurement plan, exemptions or concessions from the service tax 
perspective need to be introduced for boosting the domestic service 
industry.
Others:  The states are also authorised to levy other local taxes 
such as entry tax, octroi and local body tax. Further, an R&D cess 
at 5% is also applicable on the import of technology in specified 
situations.
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          17
Participation of 
MSMEs and their 
challengesThe continued focus by the MoD on greater private sector 
participation appears to be changing in favour of Indian 
companies, especially for MSMEs, which have hither to been 
supplying to defence public sector undertakings. Offset 
requirements being imposed by the MoD including aspects 
such as transfer of technology and multiplier of offset credits 
for collaboration with MSMEs are compelling OEMs and other 
suppliers to source more components from domestic suppliers. 
This in turn leads OEMs to increasingly engage with smaller 
Indian players by establishing partnerships or JVs and in the 
process, playing a part in the growth of MSMEs in India.
The offset experience brings  good news for MSMEs. Out of the 
19 contracts signed in the A&D sector amounting to 4.54 billion 
USD since 2008, almost 26% have been received by MSMEs. 
However, it is pertinent to note that these have been received by 
only a handful of companies. 
The MoD has set itself a goal of sourcing 70% of all equipment 
from Indian companies–public and private sector - by 2020 
which could provide a further boost to MSMEs in this sector. The 
Indian government has announced the following measures in the 
last two years to enhance the role of MSMEs: 
• Creating an MSME fund through SIDBI
• Facilitating certifications of MSMEs  
• Promoting the PPP model with participation of MSMEs 
• Creating aerospace clusters and earmarking special economic 
zones (SEZs) to include common infrastructure facilities  
for MSMEs 
• Incentivising foreign players to collaborate with MSME’s  
by allowing multipliers for collaborations with MSMEs for 
offset credit 
Challenges faced by MSMEs
Notwithstanding the positive trends mentioned above, MSMEs in 
the Indian A&D sector continue to face challenges  detrimental to 
the efforts of the MoD to indigenise: 
•	Funding options:  Access to funds continues to remain the 
biggest challenge faced by small players as MSMEs are 
sensitive to a highly capital-intensive business characterised 
by long gestational periods and cyclical growth. Despite 
government steps to help MSMEs find the right funding 
options, the situation on the ground has not changed much 
over the last four to five years. Numerous delays in large 
programmes require financially robust MSMEs that can ably 
sustain time-lags. This issue can be solved only by continued 
government intervention and help assisting long-term 
sustenance.
18 PwC
•	Technology:  The A&D sector is in the midst of a tremendous 
change for newer technologies forcing companies to 
innovate in order to remain competitive. R&D investments 
are generally considered high risk because of the long 
gestational periods. Private sector sources of financing are 
not always receptive to accepting such risks. These factors 
make small players highly risk-averse affecting R&D spends 
and hence their ability to build innovative technologies. As 
a consequence, most MSMEs struggle to provide sustained 
and high quality support to larger players adversely 
impacting  efforts to indigenise.  
•	Quality and L1 issues: While Indian manufacturing has 
improved significantly in quality control over time, a 
mature supplier base is still in an early stage of evolution. 
Additionally, accreditation is time-consuming and 
expensive in this low-tolerance industry in which the buyer 
expects the highest quality of products and services at the 
lowest possible price.
Unfinished agenda
DPP 2013 creates an enabling framework for increased 
indigenisation. However, the success of the revised DPP largely 
depends on the extent to which the policy can be put in practice 
and support extended by other policy frameworks affecting the 
A&D ecosystem such as the FDI policy and indirect taxes. The 
following are some of the immediate steps that the government 
needs to take into account in order to accelerate the pace of 
indigenisation:
• Increasing the FDI limit in defence to encourage high-end 
technology transfers from foreign OEMs
• Security guidelines to allay security concerns while 
allowing higher FDI participation by foreign OEMs
• Ensuring adherence to 30 or 50% indigenisation 
requirements at trial stage  to be re-considered as the 
requirement seems impractical
• Reconsidering the procedure proposed in DPP 2013 for 
calculating value of indigenous content as the process 
is complex and may discourage Indian vendors from 
participating in the procurement programmes
• Further alignment of the DPP to even out anomalies to 
provide level playing field to domestic private sector by 
addressing issues like benefit of ERVs
• Accelerating its efforts to work with MoF to address indirect 
tax issues to boost indigenous defence manufacturing as 
currently Indian manufacturers are un-competitive as far as 
the incidence of tax is concerned vis-à-vis foreign vendors
• Sponsoring R&D projects at private industry level to 
encourage R&D for developing critically advanced 
technologies and providing special tax incentives to R&D in 
defence.
• Extending the benefits of additional avenues for  
fulfilling offset obligations to the programs falling under 
previous DPP.
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          19
Abbreviations
AMCA Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft
A&D Aerospace & Defence
AIP Air Independent Propulsion
CST Central Sales Tax
CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate
CSIR Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DAC Defence Acquisition Council
DPP Defence Procurement Procedure
DPSU Defence Public Sector Undertaking
DRDO Defence Research and Development Organisation
DST Department of Science and Technology
DoS Department of Space
DEWs Directed Energy Weapons
ERV Exchange Rate Variation
FGFA Fifth Generation Fighter Aircraft
FDI Foreign Direct Investment
GDP Gross Domestic Product
IIT Indian Institute of Technology
IT Information Technology
IP Intellectual Property
ICB International Competitive Bidding
JV Joint Venture
LTIPP Long Term Integrated Perspective Plan
MRO Maintenance Repair & Overhaul
MToT Maintenance Transfer of Technology
MSMEs Micro Small and Medium Enterprises
MoD Ministry of Defence
MOES Ministry of Earth Sciences
MoF Ministry of Finance
OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers
PPP Public Private Partnership
RFP Request for Proposal
R&D Research & Development
SIDBI Small Industries Development Bank of India
SEZ Special Economic Zones
SWOT Strengths Weakness Opportunities & Threats
TPCR Technology Perspective and Capability Roadmap
ToT Transfer of Technology
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
UCAV Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle
UGV Unmanned Ground Vehicles
VAT Value Added Tax
20 PwCNotes
The holy grail of indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance in defence equipment          21
About ASSOCHAM
ASSOCHAM acknowledged as the knowledge chamber of India has 
emerged as a forceful, pro-active, effective and forward-looking 
institution playing its role as a catalyst between the government 
and the industry. ASSOCHAM established in 1920 and has been 
successful in influencing the government in shaping India’s 
economic, trade, fiscal and social policies which will be of benefit to 
the trade and industry.
ASSOCHAM renders its service to over 4,50,000 members which 
includes multinational companies, India’s top corporates, medium 
and small scale units and associations representing the interest of 
more than 400 chambers and trade associations from all over India 
encompassing all sectors.
ASSOCHAM has over 100 national committees covering the 
entire gamut of economic activities in India. It has been especially 
acknowledged as a significant voice of Indian industry in the 
fields of corporate social responsibility, environment and  safety, 
e-commerce, corporate governance, information technology, 
agriculture, nanotechnology, biotechnology, defence, cyber security, 
entertainment and  media, pharmaceuticals, telecom, banking 
and  finance, company law, corporate finance, economic and 
international affairs, tourism, civil aviation, infrastructure, energy  
power, education, legal reforms, real estate, rural development, etc. 
The chamber has its regional offices in Bangalore, Ahmedabad, 
Kolkata, Ranchi, Bhopal, Jaipur and International offices in 
Australia, Japan, UAE and USA. ASSOCHAM has also signed MoU 
partnership with business chambers in more than 75 countries.
Mr D S Rawat
Secretary General
ASSOCHAM
Tel: 011-46550555
Email: d.s.rawat@assocham.com
About PwC  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value 
they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering 
quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having 
offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information 
about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC 
network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see 
www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcPwC India Aerospace and Defence Team
Dhiraj Mathur
Executive Director, Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice
Tel: +91 124 3306 005
Email: dhiraj.mathur@in.pwc.com
Rajiv Chib
Associate Director, Aerospace and Defence Practice
Tel: +91 124 3306 026
Email: rajiv.chib@in.pwc.com
Shashank Tripathi
Executive Director, Leader, Strategy and Research Practice
Tel: + 91 22 6669 1002
Email: shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.com
Gautam Khattar
Associate Director, Indirect Tax
Tel: +91 124 3306 528
Email: gautam.khattar@in.pwc.com
Kamal Abrol
Executive Director, Corporate Tax
Tel: +91 124 3306510
Email: kamal.abrol@in.pwc.com
Nidhi Kansal
Senior Manager, Aerospace & Defence Practice
Tel: +91 124 330 6124
Email: nidhi.kansal@in.pwc.com
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for 
any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 23 - June 2013 The holy grail of indigenisation.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
