Title: pwc_india-manufacturing-barometer
Date Published: 2013-07-24 14:33:39+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_india-manufacturing-barometer.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

India 
Manufacturing 
Barometer
Taking the pulse
www.pwc.in
India Manufacturing Barometer, July 2013  
Economic climate  p4/Sector dashboard  p6/Speed breakers  p8/Emerging trends  p10/  
Key comparisons: India and the US p12/ Special focus – customer expectations  p14/ 
In summary  p15/Key indicators for the business outlook  p16/Survey demographics  
and research methodology  p17
While being cautiously 
optimistic, the sector is using 
this period of comparatively 
sluggish activity to realign the 
business models and prepare 
for the future

PwC2Foreword 
The Indian manufacturing sector is facing challenging times. It has become 
imperative for India to breathe life and growth into its manufacturing sector. The 
vision to have the sector contribute to 25% of GDP is critical to achieve as it is 
needed to increase our GDP growth and provide jobs- both integral to the inclusive 
growth we would like to see.
The government has to make every effort to improve the investment environment 
enabling manufacturing and infrastructure projects to be implemented in the 
shortest possible time. We need the competitiveness of our industry to be at the 
core of policy so that we can supply the domestic market and export to the world.
The survey conducted by FICCI and PwC, ‘Manufacturing Barometer’ has brought 
out key challenges facing the sector in the current macro-economic scenario and 
also the expectations of manufacturers for the next ten to twelve months. 
I hope this report will help in addressing and prioritising the issues concerning 
manufacturing in the short term as well as long term. I compliment PwC India 
and the team at FICCI for collaborating for the Indian version of Manufacturing 
Barometer Report.
Naina Lal Kidwai  
President, FICCI
India Manufacturing Barometer3Preface
It gives me immense pleasure to initiate our manufacturing sector journey with 
FICCI with our first edition of the India Manufacturing Barometer, a report to 
survey the confidence and growth outlook of CXOs across the manufacturing 
sector.
The country’s status as a developing economy, accompanied by an increasing 
need to generate employment opportunities for its youth, has highlighted its 
potential as a manufacturing hub. Government recognition of the criticality of the 
manufacturing sector has led to the announcement of the National Manufacturing 
Policy (NMP), setting out a bold vision for the sector achieving a growth rate of 12 
to 14% over the medium term. 
In FY13, India’s manufacturing sector grew slower than the rest of the economy, 
with GDP growth itself having slowed. With this background, we have attempted 
to profile and analyse the views of organisations in the sector, on economic and 
market conditions, industry opportunities and challenges, business performance 
and prospects.
The India Manufacturing Barometer finds that CXOs are largely concerned with 
increasing cost pressures especially interest rates, declining domestic demand, 
foreign exchange volatility and political uncertainty. However, contrasted with 
the many prophets of gloom, majority of the CXOs are cautiously optimistic about 
future growth prospects both for their segment as well as for their company. 
Majority of the companies surveyed had strategies in place to negotiate the various 
threats to growth. These strategies are not merely focused on cost reductions 
and efficiencies and reigning in capex but are aimed at building competitive 
advantage beyond costs. The most common themes were new product or 
service introductions, research and development, facilities expansion and, most 
importantly, understanding the changing customer preferences and demands and 
fostering longer term profitable relationships with customers.
My sincere thanks to the participating CXOs across various segments of the 
manufacturing sector for their valuable time and for sharing their thoughts and 
strategies with us. 
I hope you find this survey report insightful and useful and welcome any 
suggestions you may have.
Bimal Tanna  
Leader, Industrial Products  
PwC India
PwC4Economic 
climateThe performance of manufacturing, 
in most developed and emerging 
nations, is a bellwether of the health 
of their respective economies. Due to 
interwoven linkages between the sector 
and the rest of the economy, we started 
this survey by gauging the environment 
that the domestic and global economies 
are providing to Indian manufacturing. 
Global economy yet to bounce 
back 
Concerns regarding the stability of 
some of the Eurozone economies, 
sluggish growth in the US and the 
slowdown in key emerging economies 
have affected the Indian manufacturing 
sector’s view of the global economy.
Given this background, a majority of 
companies participating in our survey 
saw the world economy as being in a 
decline. Looking forward over the next 
12 months, the outlook does not seem 
to improve much, with more companies 
describing it as uncertain or mildly 
pessimistic. GDP growth rate: The global economy could see a mild recovery
Mostly uncertain or pessimistic about world economic growth
Today
Significant growth  0%
Moderate growth 14%
No noticeable change  24%
Moderate decline  50%
Significant decline  12%Next 12 months
Very optimistic  0%
Somewhat optimistic 26%
Uncertain 35%
Somewhat pessimistic  35%
Very pessimistic  4%
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013Source: World Economic Outlook, the IMF, PwC analysis
*Calendar year forecastWorld
2013*
2014*
Emerging and  
developing  
economies
2013*
2014*Advanced  
economies
2013*
2014*
China
2013*
2014*3.1% 1.2%
7.7%3.8%2.1%
7.8%5%
5.4%
India
2013*
2014*5.6%
6.3%
India Manufacturing Barometer5India expected to turn the corner
The release of the annual GDP figures 
for 2012-13 threw few surprises, with 
GDP growth at its lowest in a decade at 
5% y-o-y1. With this growth following 
figures of around 9% in FY10 and 
FY112, it is probably not surprising that 
views on the economy tended towards 
‘no growth’ or ‘moderate decline’.
The outlook for the economy is, 
however, relatively brighter for the next 
12 months. In FY14, 70% of companies 
surveyed expect the economy to exceed 
the 5% growth rate of last year, with 
a median growth estimate, among 
companies interviewed at 5.5% for 
FY14. 
This estimate matches reasonably well 
with the Asian Development Bank 3  
and IMF estimates for GDP growth 
in CY13, which range between 5.6 
and 6.0%, though it is lower than 
the government’s own estimates of 
6.4% in FY14. On the whole, however, 
uncertainty seems to be the theme for 
the majority of companies, with some 
believing that impending elections may 
delay government decisions and limit 
growth in the current fiscal year.
1 The Central Statistics Office (CSO), Ministry of 
Statistics and Programme Implementation
2 The Planning Commission of India
3 Asian Development Outlook 2013, Asian 
Development BankMore optimistic about the future GDP growth rate of India
Today
Significant growth  2%
Moderate growth 22%
No noticeable change  38%
Moderate decline  30%
Significant decline  8%Growth expectation in FY14
Above 5% 70%
Less than 5% 30%
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013
Source: Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the IMF.GDP growth rate: Indian economy might have bottomed out
PwC6Sector  
dashboardThe manufacturing sector has been 
moving at a slower pace than the 
overall economy for some time now. 
As a result, the sector’s contribution to 
GDP has declined marginally from 16.1 
to 15.2% in the five years till March 
2013. Growth rate in manufacturing 
reduced from 9.7% in 2010-11 to 2.7% 
in 2011-12 and 1% in 2012-13. In FY13, 
only 3.3% of the country’s growth was 
generated by manufacturing as opposed 
to 83% contributed by services.4 The 
sector is not at its strongest at the 
moment, but are the manufacturing 
companies in lockstep with rest of the 
economy?
Companies are positive
Estimates for industry revenue growth 
do not appear to be very optimistic, 
with the mean estimate being 4%, and 
nearly one in five companies expecting 
their segment to show negative growth 
over the next 12 months.
On the other hand, companies expect 
their own revenues to grow at a faster 
pace in FY14, with a mean estimate of 
over 15%. In fact, one in five companies 
expected revenue growth to exceed 
20% in FY14.Manufacturing’s share in the economy has been declining
Source: The Planning Commission of India, PwC analysisIndia’s manufaturing GDP  
(Trillion INR)
Manufacturing’s share in GDP
5.716% 16.1%15.8%16.2% 16.2%
15.7%
15.2%
6.3 6.67.38.08.2 8.3
2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13
What is the estimate of your sector’s likely revenue growth rate in FY14?
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 20132%7%29%
>20% 15-20% 10-15% 7-10% 4-7% 0-4% <0%18%
4%29%
11%87%  
expect their sector growth  
to be less or equal to 10%
6%What is the estimated revenue growth rate for your business in FY14?
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 20138%10%
2%21%
14%
>30% 25-30% 20-25% 15-20% 10-15% 5-10% 0-5%  <0%8%31% 55%  
believe that revenue growth  
will be at least 10%
4 The Central Statistics Office, Ministry of Statistics 
and Programme Implementation
India Manufacturing Barometer7Margin pressures have not dented 
their optimism 
The global economy has been volatile, 
adversely impacting business and 
consumer sentiments. Slow market 
demand generally results in inventory 
accumulation and sales slowdown, 
reflecting the trend depicted by 
manufacturing companies. Finished 
inventories as a percentage of 
sales have gone up for 43% of the 
respondents in the past six months. 
Faced with uncertainty regarding 
demand in the market, it is also likely 
that the bargaining capacity of the 
manufacturers has reduced. For half of 
the companies surveyed, gross margins 
declined over the past six months. 
Typically, this was due to a combination 
of constrained pricing power and cost 
pressures. For 58% of the companies, 
costs increased over the past six 
months, yet only 20% were able to 
increase prices.
Significantly, most organisations 
believe the market has ‘bottomed out’, 
and the next few months will be better. 
Over half of the respondents believe 
that margins will improve over the next 
six months, while another 38% expect 
them to remain steady. Margins
Increase
Stayed the same
Decrease50% 30% 
20% Cost change
Increase
Stayed the same
Decrease 25% 58% 
17%  
Price change
Up
Stayed the same
Down39% 20% 
41% 
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013What happened to costs, prices and margins in the past six months?Finished inventories as a percentage of sales in the past six months
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 201343%
Up22%
Down35%
About the same
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013Expectations of margins over the next 12 months are optimistic
54%
Increase8%
Decrease38%
Remain the same
PwC8Speed  
breakersMajor barriers to growth over the next 
12 months are expected to mirror those 
that have constrained business activity 
over the last few quarters.
Higher interest rates
Not surprisingly, 56% of respondents 
felt that higher interest rates would be 
the key factor limiting growth over the 
next 12 months. High interest rates 
not only impact consumer borrowing, 
but also increase the cost of capital 
for corporations, thus impacting new 
investments. This has a cascading effect 
on demand and economic growth. The 
RBI started easing the rates from the 
second half of last year. However, rates 
are still trending above the 10-year 
averages, and with pressure on the 
exchange rate may not see a downward 
momemt in near term.5
Lack of domestic demand
Lack of demand in the domestic 
economy is identified as a key concern 
by 52% of the respondents. With 
private final consumption having 
grown at 4% and gross fixed capital 
formation grown at 1.7%, demand for 
industrial products has been sluggish. 
Companies surveyed anticipate that this 
will continue to be a limiting factor for 
growth in FY14 as well.Barriers to business growth over the next 12 months
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013
Source: The Reserve Bank of IndiaInterest rates are trending above the 10-year averages
5  The Reserve Bank of India56%
52%
36%
36%
32%
32%
32%
30%
26%
26%
20%
10%
6%Higher interest rates
Lack of domestic demand
Oil / energy prices
Pressure for increased wages
Legislative or regulatory pressures
Decreasing profitability
Unavailability / high price of raw materials
Competition from foreign markets
Foreign exchange volatility
Taxation policies
Capital constraints
Lack of professional workers or managers
Lack of production or service workers
India Manufacturing Barometer9Other concerns
Pressure on wages was a concern for 
more than one in three companies. 
This may not surprising as companies 
believe that in an environment of 
high inflation, wage increases are 
imperative. In addition, taxation 
policies and legislative or regulatory 
pressures are perceived as a barrier 
to growth by several companies. 
Restrictive labour laws and a complex 
tax and duty regime have been 
exacerbated by delays in approval 
and implementation of government 
and infrastructure projects. Delays in 
government spending and procurement 
have a cascading impact on industrial 
demand. The World Bank Group in a 
recent study drew attention to this6. 
Thirty-two per cent of companies are 
concerned about unavailability of raw 
materials and 36% are about high 
energy prices. In the last financial 
year, fuel and power inflation have 
seen a gradual moderation, but are yet 
trending at an elevated level, range-
bound between 8 to 12%7.Tedious regulations, legislations and taxation
Source: The World Bank Group132  
India’s place on 
ease of doing 
business  rankings 
among a total of 
185 countries, 
where rank 1 is  
the easiest  
With a rank of 
182  
India remains 
one of the most 
difficult places to 
get a construction 
permit
With a rank of 
184  
India is also the 
most difficult  
place to enforce  
a contract
6 Doing Business 2013, Smarter Regulations for 
Small and Medium-Size Enterprises, The World 
Bank Group (The World Bank and the International 
Finance Corporation)
7 Office of Economic Advisor, Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry, Government of India
PwC10Emerging 
trendsThe importance of manufacturing in 
the overall well being of the economy is 
more than evident and the government 
has paved a mission for the sector. 
Notwithstanding the plans of the 
government, companies are already 
taking measures to try and drive growth 
in their individual businesses.
Restraining expenditure, not value
Customer growth targets for companies 
are also strongly guided by tightly defined 
investment parameters. Manufacturing 
companies are careful about adding 
capacity but are not in a mood to cut 
manpower.
Expenditure: Tread carefully
Faced with rising costs and weak demand, 
investments could have taken a back seat. 
Half the companies surveyed are not 
planning major new investments and 10% 
are uncertain about it. 
No job cuts yet
However, in India, while companies have 
stalled their plans of capacity additions 
and investments, they have also been 
careful not to cut value in the process.  
For instance, 44% of the respondents 
were planning to retain their existing 
staffing levels, while a further 35% 
expected to increase headcount over the 
next 12 months. 
Looking forward to expand 
Companies are ready to explore their 
options beyond national borders and 
capture an increasing share of the  
global pie.
Markets without borders 
The trend is evident in the responses. 
Only 4% of the total interviewed 
companies want a reduction of activity 
in selected markets abroad in the next 12 
months. For the balance, resolution to 
increase their global footprint seems more 
aggressive for the future, compared to the 
last six months. Over the next 12 months, 
a third of companies surveyed expect 
international sales to comprise over 
20% of their revenues, with the median 
expectation being 14%.Manufacturers are cautious about new investments but cost control has not stopped  
job creation
50%   
are refraining from planning any major 
new investments
79% in India   
plan to add or at the most keep their 
full-time equivalent employees same
Manufacturers remain optimistic about expansion in the next 12 months
34%   
Expect more than 20% of revenues from international sales
57%   
Expand to new markets abroad
43%   
Start at least one new strategic alliance
2 in 5  
Plan to set up a new manufacturing, production or distribution facility abroad
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013
India Manufacturing Barometer11Target business activities
While 57% are expecting to expand 
to new markets abroad, 43% believe 
that they will start at least one new 
strategic alliance or joint venture in the 
next 12 months. Nearly, two among 
five companies also plan to set up a 
new manufacturing, production or 
distribution facility abroad. 
Building competitive advantage 
beyond cost
Competitive advantages need to be 
sustainable for Indian manufacturing to 
maintain its attractiveness, since they 
face competition not only from other 
domestic players, but also players in 
other countries. 
Strategically allocating limited 
resources
Manufacturers may have started 
working towards these goals already. 
We say this since despite the objective 
of cost-effectiveness and capped 
expenditures, they are strategically 
planning to allocate their limited 
expenses in the next 12 months. They 
have chosen to spend on new product 
or service introductions, research and 
development and facilities expansion. 
R&D aimed at improving product 
portfolio and mix to increase margins. 
The focus area of their investment 
shows that they are resolute about 
climbing up the value ladder to sustain 
their advantage and not solely rely on 
providing low costs. 
Sector-specific investments
A closer look at the data reveals that 
sectors such as auto ancillary were 
actively pursuing all three areas of 
expenditure. Metal companies were 
mostly looking forward to expanding 
facilities and introducing new products 
and services. A majority in the building 
and construction materials sector want 
to spend only on facilities expansion, 
capitals goods segment on new products 
and services and chemicals and 
engineering companies on R&D. Size specific optimism 
When we segregated the companies 
surveyed on the revenues of their 
respective divisions or SBUs, we found 
that the intensity with which they 
expanded across the border, in the past 
six months, varied with size. The 
participating companies with revenues 
of 5 billion INR or above in FY12 were 
more inclined to expand than those with 
revenues below that level. 
However, the limited, but carefully selected investments are aimed at climbing the value ladder
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013Top three investment priorities in the  
next 12 months
New product or service introductions
Research and development
Facilities expansion57% 
55% 
47% 
Sector-wise investment priorities
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013R&D
Chemicals
Engineering
Facilities  
expansion
Building &  
construction  
materialsNew services  
and products
Capital goodsMetalsAuto  
ancillary
Mean expected  
industry growth
Mean expected  
own revenue growth 
Planning to hire
Planning major  
investments4.0%
15.7%
35%
40%3.5%
4.6%
42%
40%Key comparisons:  
India and the US
PwC 12
Key future business activities
Expansion to new 
markets abroadAcquisition  
of a businessNew manufacturing, 
production or 
distribution facilities 
abroadSpin-off or sale of 
certain operations
57%
18%33%
18%37%
12%6%
10%
Expected barriers to growth (US)
53% 47%      32%Legislative or 
regulatory pressuresLack of domestic demand Taxation policiesUSAExpected barriers to growth (India)
56% 52%     36%Higher interest rates Lack of domestic demand Pressure for increased wagesIndia
Source:  India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013 and  PwC US Manufacturing Barometer: Business outlook report, July 2013
India Manufacturing Barometer 13
PwC14Special focus: 
Customer  
expectations
In a difficult economic climate, as sales 
become sluggish, companies begin to 
focus, apart from their own operations, 
on driving additional value from their 
suppliers. With most manufacturers, 
being themselves suppliers to other 
businesses, we obtained a range of 
viewpoints from them, on whether 
and how customer expectations were 
changing and how they were reacting  
to them.
Understanding customer needs
Companies are not only aware, but 
are also preparing to tackle changing 
demands and preferences of customers 
by fostering long-term relationships. 
While customers are becoming more 
demanding, particularly with respect to 
price and payment terms, manufacturers 
appear to be evolving their business 
models in order to maintain their 
operating margins.
Cost efficiency 
Indian manufacturers are seeing a 
change in customer dynamics in the 
present market. Of the companies 
surveyed, 73% believe that customer 
requirements and expectations have 
changed due to the global economic 
environment as well as the domestic 
slowdown in growth. We found 
that Indian customers have strong 
preferences for higher discounts,  
among other things.Providing customers value along with low cost Our interviews also revealed that some 
players wanted to respond to these 
shifts to build and maintain long-term 
relationships with customers, both 
new and existing. So, how are they 
doing it? Cost efficiency appears to 
be the primary strategy to respond 
to changing customer needs. 76% of 
surveyed companies stated that they 
are resorting to cost efficiencies to meet 
customer requirements. There is ample 
room to reduce average costs in Indian 
manufacturing, but such cost savings 
can come from the elimination of cost 
inefficiencies.9 Cost efficiency can ensure 
cost competitiveness, which enables 
companies to gain a larger share of the 
market. Not just products, but also solutions
As customers crave for value additions 
and efficient delivery systems, 
companies are striving to keep them 
interested with service additions. 
Around 42% are adding services to 
their products in order to respond 
to frequently shifting and disparate 
customer preferences. This finding is 
witness to the trend that manufacturing 
companies are progressing much 
beyond factory operations, driven by 
competition. Some companies now want 
to link their manufacturing operations 
with nonmanufacturing functions such 
as customer service, logistics, business 
solutions, procurement and planning. 
The trend could help manufacturing 
companies integrate seamlessly with 
multiple business partners. 
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013 9 Are Indian firms too small? A nonparametric 
analysis of cost efficiency and industry 
structure of Indian manufacturing, University of 
Connecticut, March 2008EfficientCost  
efficencies and 
higher discountsCost efficiencies are 
important with 76% 
resorting to these 
to meet changing 
customer demands 
42% are adding 
services to products 
to engage with the 
customer
India Manufacturing Barometer15In summary
In an environment of sluggish economic 
growth, and deceleration of the 
manufacturing sector, it is not surprising 
that the mood exhibited by companies 
appears cautious. Companies appear to 
have battened down their hatches and 
are preparing for a period of uncertainty. 
New investments seem to have been 
put on hold, with half of the companies 
surveyed indicating that they had no 
plans for major investments in FY14.
Encouragingly, however, it appears 
that the sector is using this period 
of comparatively sluggish activity to 
realign the business models and prepare 
for the future. Much of the focus of 
new investments is on new product 
introduction and on R&D initiatives 
aimed at improving product portfolio 
and mix to increase margins. In the light 
of a challenging economic environment, 
companies are also re-evaluating 
customer propositions and relationships. 
while adding value to the core product 
and focusing on longer-term and 
profitable relationships with customers.Despite uncertainty related to economic 
conditions, and continued constraints 
to growth, companies seem to believe 
that the market may have ‘bottomed 
out’, with GDP growth in FY14 expected 
to be higher than in the previous year. 
Further, the company surveyed appear 
confident about its own prospects for 
growth, with more than 50% largely 
expecting their own revenues to grow at 
higher than 10% over the next year and 
profit margins to improve.  

PwC16Key indicators for the 
business outlook
Business outlook among manufacturers for the next 12 months
Mean expected industry growth 4%
Mean expected own revenue growth 15.7%
Margins expected to increase 54%
Planning to hire 35%
Planning major investments 40%
Expenditures planned in:
New product or service introductions 57%
Research and development 55%
Facilities expansion 47%
Expected barriers to growth:
Higher interest rates 56%
Lack of domestic demand 52%
Pressure for increased wages 36%
Oil and energy prices 36%
Legislative or regulatory pressures 32%
Key future business activities: 
Expansion to new markets abroad 57%
Start at least one new strategic alliance or JV 43%
Acquisition of a business 33%
Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2013
India Manufacturing Barometer17Survey demographics and 
research methodology 
Demographics
Interview period 15 April to 15 June 2013
Average number of employees 3,644
Average business unit revenue 20.5 billion INR 
Industry sectors • Auto ancillary 
• Building and construction materials 
• Capital goods
• Chemicals
• Engineering
• Met als
Methodology
The India Manufacturing Barometer is based on a survey conducted by PwC and Avalon Global Research. Our 
survey covered senior executives from a sample of manufacturing companies in India; interviewees typically 
held designations such as CEO, CFO, COO or Head of Strategy.
About FICCI
FICCI Contacts
Mr Chetan Bijesure
Director & Head Manufacturing
chetan.bijesure@ficci.com
 
Mr Samir Mathur
Senior Assistant Director
samir.mathur@ficci.com
 
Ms Nisha Goel
Senior Assistant Director
nisha.goel@ficci.com
 
Ms Shailja Garg
Assistant Director
shailja.garg@ficci.comEstablished in 1927, FICCI is the largest and oldest apex business organisation in India. Its 
history is closely interwoven with India’s struggle for independence, its industrialization, 
and its emergence as one of the most rapidly growing global economies. FICCI has 
contributed to this historical process by encouraging debate, articulating the private 
sector’s views and influencing policy.
A non-government, not-for-profit organisation, FICCI is the voice of India’s business and 
industry.
FICCI draws its membership from the corporate sector, both private and public, including 
SMEs and MNCs; FICCI enjoys an indirect membership of over 2,50,000 companies from 
various regional chambers of commerce.
About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a 
network of firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to 
delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, 
Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more 
information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member 
firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
  facebook.com/PwCIndia 
  twitter.com/PwC_IN
 linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
 youtube.com/pwcAcknowledgements
Amiya Satpathy
Avalon Global Research
Manan Tolat
Mohan Verma
Neelesh Shrikhande
Neeta Phaterphekar
Ravind Mithe
S V Sukumar
Tapobrata Das RoyPwC Contacts
Bimal Tanna
Leader, Industrial Products
bimal.tanna@in.pwc.com
Dushyant Singh
Associate Director, Strategy
dushyant.singh@in.pwc.com
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Private 
Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the 
judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of 
action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of 
this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India), 
which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 36 - July 2013 ManufacturingBarometer.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
