Title: pwc_looking-ahead-securing-energy-through-clean-technologies
Date Published: 2013-10-25 10:10:17+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_looking-ahead-securing-energy-through-clean-technologies.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Looking ahead
Securing energy through 
clean technologies
www.pwc.in
CII Karnataka Conference on Power 
24-25 October 2013

2       PwC
CII Karnataka conference on Power            3India’s strong economic growth in 
the last decade has placed enormous demand on its energy resources. In spite 
of having the fifth largest electricity 
generation capacity in the world, the country faces a huge demand-supply mismatch. Though India’s per capita energy consumption has increased 
at 5.23% annually during the period 
2006-2013, the level of per capita consumption is significantly lower than the world average (2977 kWh in 
2011) and the national level target of 
1,000 kWh set by the government. The country is lagging far behind its BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) peers and for India to achieve its 
targeted growth, electricity will play a 
vital role.
Source: World Bank open dataSetting the context
India’s per capita consumption is over 200% short of the world average. This deficit needs to be considered when 
it comes to deciding the future course 
of action in terms of policymaking, investment in technology and any other support required for the power sector.
Capacity addition in the country has not 
been able to match the increasing power demand. During the 11
th Five Year Plan, 
nearly 55,000 megawatt (MW) of new generation capacity was created, which 
is well below the initial plan target of 
around 87,000 MW. Lower than required capacity addition, fuel shortages, poor monsoon, etc have resulted in a situation of power deficit in the country. 
The total deficit faced by the regions in 
northern,eastern, western, and north-eastern (NEWNE) grid was 6.1% in FY13 and has witnessed an improving 
deficit situation. The southern region 
has witnessed worsening power deficit over time and is the most affected region with 15.5% energy deficit in FY13. The Integrated Energy Policy 
(IEP) forecasts a need for 425 giga-watt (GW) of installed capacity byFY 2022 to 
meet India’s electricity requirements as compared to the current capacity of  227 GW. 
Coming to the generation mix, India’s 
power sector has been traditionally dependent on coal as its chief energy 
source. Fifty-eight per cent of the 
installed capacity in India is coal based and around Sixty seven percent of this added in the 11
th Plan was coal 
based. Today, India imports substantial quantities of gas, oil and coal in order 
to meet its growing energy demand. The 
increasing dependence on imported fuels may create a serious threat to the future fuel security of the country. It is a positive sign that the contribution of renewable 
sources is showing considerable 
improvement. Currently, they form 12.4% of the total installed capacity in 2013. The contribution of gas based 
power generation has remained constant 
and currently, they form 8.96% of the total installed capacity in 2013. 
Source wise installed capacityPer Capita Electricity Consumption 
Dependence on imported energy
Source: CEA monthly reports
4       PwCClean energy’s role in  
bridging the gap 
If the country has to add another 200 
GW by 2022, it has no option but to explore and promote aggressively all 
possible generation sources. Going 
forward, it is expected that coal based power plants will continue to play a major role and will be a leading source of power generation. 
However, in addition to investing in 
base load power plants through coal, the 
country needs to target capacity from 
clean energy resources and benefit from the specific advantages they bring in. Apart from being environment friendly, 
renewable energy sources can help the 
country improve energy security, reduce burden on imports and therefore the economy, and provide decentralised solutions among other benefits. 
Owing to increased imports of oil and 
coal, the country has seen an increasing 
current account deficit in the past few 
years. High current account deficit is one of the key reasons for the depreciation of the Indian currency in the recent past. Reliance on renewable energy is 
therefore not only important from the 
perspective of energy security but also from the perspective of stabilising the economy by way of reducing fossil fuel imports.
1  Strategic plan for new and renewable sector The country has immense renewable energy potential. The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy(MNRE)
estimated the potential for renewable 
energy generation capacity (excluding solar) to be around 90,000 MW out of which 48,500 MW is wind, 15,000 MW is small hydro power and 23,700 
MW is bio-power
1. However, the Centre 
for Wind Energy Technology (C-WET) 
in 2012, has reassessed India’s wind 
power potential to 102 GW considering 
higher hub height of 80 m. Various other studies have found potential in the range of 2,006 GW for 80-meter hub heights to 3,121 GW for 120-meter hub heights and 
considering more land availability.
Source: Energy Statistics 2013In order to address the shortage, the 
Planning Commission has set a target of 88,425 MW to be achieved in the 12
th 
Plan period (2012-2017). The projected capacity addition includes hydro 
capacity of 11,897 MW and nuclear 
capacity addition of 5,300 MW. 
As far as gas based energy is concerned, 
the Ministry of Power(MoP)/ Central Electricity Authority(CEA) considering the uncertain availability of domestic gas, has issued an advisory to all 
developers not to consider any new 
gas based power plants till 2015-16. The existing gas based projects are struggling to operate at full capacity 
owing to the unavailability of domestic 
gas. For the time being, gas based projects have all been either put on hold or are not fully operational. This reflects in the lack of any significant capacity 
addition from gas based plants.
Average weekly INR USD bid rate Current account deficit in IndiaRenewable energy generation potential in GW
Gas based power stations: PLF
January 2008
39.27
January 201354.82
June 2013
60.62Source: CEA
CII Karnataka conference on Power            5On the other hand, grid interactive 
renewable capacity addition of about 30,000 MW is targeted for the 12
th 
Five Year Plan. It comprises of 15,000 MW from wind energy, 10,000 MW 
from solar energy, 2,100 MW of small 
hydro and the balance primarily from bio mass. Support in the form of fiscal incentives, tax holidays, depreciation allowances, and 100% FDI allowance are 
provided by the state as well as central 
governments to bring about the desired growth in renewable energy capacities. While policy initiatives are helping 
renewables play a prominent role, the 
market factors such as grid parity in tariffs and evolved off-take markets are also contributing to increased significance. 
Renewable energy installed capacity 
grew at a CAGR of around 23% over 
the last five years (2007-12) with wind 
energy leading in terms of capacity addition. Renewable energy has registered a growth of 49% since 2010. Solar energy has also geared up in the 
last few years, registering an impressive 
growth of an installed capacity of 1.8 GW as of July 2013 from 32 MW in  April 2010. 
However, overall renewable energy 
capacity addition in the last two years has been significantly slower than 
expected. The capacity addition in FY13 
fell short of the MNRE target by atleast 1000 MW. FY14 is also expected to fall short of the targets with only 835 MW 
added till July 2013. 
RE programme Target for FY14 Total deployment in 
FY14 till July 2013Cumulative achieve-
ment upto 31-07-2013
Wind power 2500 608.20 19661.5
Small hydro power 300 74.50 3706.75
Biomass power 105 - 1264.8
Bagasse cogen 300 - 2337.4
Waste to power 20 - 96.08
Solar power (SPV) 1100 152.56 1839
Total 4325.00 835.26 28905.21
Source: MNRELack of clarity on generation based 
incentives (GBI) and withdrawal of accelerated depreciation (AD) benefits 
for the wind sector are the key reasons 
for lower than normal capacity addition. On the other hand, the capacity addition from solar power sources has been impressive in the last year.
Industry believes that in order to 
address the power-deficit situation in the 
country going forward, the government 
needs to encourage investment in clean technologies through continuous support in the form of fiscal incentives, 
policy certainty and established 
processes to increase ease of project execution. 

6       PwCKarnataka, one of the fastest growing 
states and a leading investment destination has a total installed power 
generation capacity of 13.8 gigawatt 
(GW) registering a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 9.52% during 2008-2013. Coal based power generation contributes the maximum 
with its share of around 44.5%. The 
state with 3599 MW has the second largest hydel capacity in the country after Andhra Pradesh. The state doesn’t 
have any gas based power generation.
The share of renewable energy in the 
overall capacity mix today in MW terms 
in Karnataka stands at an impressive 25.8%. Karnataka is one of the top four states with installed renewable energy capacity of 3570 MW. Tamil Nadu leads 
the list with a capacity of 7491.5 MW 
followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat. 
Source: CEA monthly reports
The energy deficit in the state has increased from 2.6% in FY08 to around 13.9% in FY13 as the installed capacity 
increased at a CAGR of 9.82% while the 
demand increased at 12.58% during the same period. The state has an energy demand of 66,274 MU against energy demand met of 57,044 MU resulting in a 
deficit of 9230 MU in FY13.  Karnataka 
Energy security challenges
The deficit without considering the 
energy purchased from short-term sources is actually 30.58%. 
The 18th Electric Power Survey (EPS) of 
India conducted by the CEA has forecast 
the energy requirement growing from 
66274 MU in FY13 to 108012 MU in FY22 growing at a CAGR of 6.9%. Similarly, peak demand requirement is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.65% in 
Karnataka and a peak demand of 18,403 
MW is forecast in 2022 against a peak demand of 10,124 MW in 2013.
The Centre for the Study of Science, 
Technology and Policy (CSTEP) on behalf of the Karnataka Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (KERC) has 
prepared a roadmap for the power sector in Karnataka. The supply capacity of the state has been projected by the CSTEP after considering the existing and 
planned capacity addition in the state 
and also based on the data provided by the Power Company of Karnataka Limited (PCKL) about the current status of projects as well as expected plant 
commissioning dates. The installed 
capacity is expected to reach 18,632 MW by 2017 and 28,083 MW by 2022 against current installed capacity of 13,818 MW. As per the CSTEP, significant energy and 
peak deficit is expected to continue in 
the next few years. 
Source: CSTEP Report for KERCSource: CEA Monthly Reports
The state experienced a peak deficit of 13.50% in FY13 and around 1363 MW of demand was unmet. The deficit the 
state faced last year can be attributed 
to fuel shortages, fuel quality issues, inadequate monsoon and less than required capacity addition.
Dependence on monsoon
Karnataka is dependent on hydel power to a significant extent i.e. around 30% of power generated in the state. While the 
generation from hydro power is cheaper 
and cleaner than other sources, the overdependence can impact the energy supplying capability in a bad monsoon year. Lower than expected monsoon in 
2012 took a heavy toll on the state as 
there was significant drop in the power generation in hydel plants. The deficit resulted in scheduled and unscheduled 
power cuts. The monsoons in 2013 came 
as a huge relief with the state receiving 8% higher than normal rainfall. Power generation from the hydel plants has doubled in July and August as compared 
to the last year. Installed capacity of Karnataka
Expected capacity addition in MW Energy and Peak Deficit in Karnataka
CII Karnataka conference on Power            7Source: SRLDC monthly reports
In spite of better monsoon and an 
improvement in the fuel situation for thermal plants, the state suffered an 
energy deficit of 3291 MU (12.7%) in 
the period of Apr-August 2013 against a deficit of 3561 MU (13.1%) in the previous year. Similarly, the peak deficit observed during Apr-August 2013 is 
1678 MW (16.9%) as against 1860 MW 
(18.4%) in the previous year.
Short-term power purchases
Karnataka’s dependence on short-term power purchases as a way to address energy deficit has increased over the 
years from 41 million units in 2008 to 
11,047 million units in 2013. In spite of the increase in short-term power purchases, the state still had an energy deficit of 9320 million units in 2013. 
One positive for Karnataka in this regard 
is the drop in short-term power price over the years from the high 7 INR per kWh in 2008 to 4.3 INR per kWh in 
2013. But this price is still 46% higher 
than the average power purchase cost of the state utilities.
According to the Bangalore Electricity 
Supply Company Limited’s (BESCOM) website, the current arrangements i.e. from 1 August 2013 to 30 June 2015 for 
short-term power were entered into at 
tariffs ranging from 4.54 INR (including Point of Connection charges) to 5.2 INR per unit. While the trend here is that of a decreasing nature, short-term power 
costs can only rise in the near future 
given the fuel shortages experienced in the country. Hence, it is important for the state to look at a more long-term strategy to secure energy and improve 
reliability than depend on short-term 
sources.
Power curtailment and its effect 
on industries
Consumers in Karnataka were affected 
badly in 2012-2013 because of the power deficit. Consumers faced as much 
as six hours of scheduled power-cuts 
daily along with numerous unscheduled ones. Businesses which were already suffering from sluggish demand due to the economic slowdown were forced 
to either cut down production or use 
captive power generation or purchase expensive power from the exchange due to the power cuts. 
The cost of power generation with diesel 
or heavy furnace oil is around three to 
four times more expensive than grid 
power. This is in addition to the capital cost incurred in purchasing generation equipment and inverters. Industrial consumers today consider having power 
backup as a necessity and are ready to 
incur the capital and operating costs to ensure reliability. 
Because of the power-deficit situation in 
the southern region and insufficient grid connectivity with the northern grid, the spot prices in the power exchange for S1 
region (Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) 
and S2 region (Tamil Nadu and Kerala) are significantly higher than the prices in the remaining parts of the country. Cost per unit and volume of short-term  
energy purchasedPerformance of Karnataka hydel plants  in MUMonth Load shedding (MW) Energy curtailed (MU) Energy deficit Peak deficit
January-13 2500 858 14.50% 13.70%
February-13 2700 812.35 15.00% 12.20%
March-13 2500 1097 17.80% 19.00%
April-13 2800 1213.4 20.40% 18.40%
May-13 1800 665 12.40% 16.40%
June-13 1250 457.6 10.10% 12.20%
July-13 1350 450.58 9.50% 12.10%
August-13 1400 457.68 8.90% 5.80%
 
Source: CEA monthly reports
Source: KERC
8       PwCBridging the gap
Taking into consideration the projects 
planned for execution in the future, the state is expected to add 5519 MW from 
central generating stations and 5533 
MW from Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) sources and IPPs by FY22. In spite of the major initiatives taken by the KPCL to augment the 
capacity with newer projects, Karnataka 
is expected to face high deficits till 2018. 
Karnataka as a state has no fossil 
fuel resources. When it comes to conventional power plants, the state has to import fossil fuels (coal or gas) for 
its power projects. Karnataka, with its 
ecologically sensitive western coastline poses a challenge to setting up thermal power plants based on imported fuel. Transporting from the neighbouring 
states will not only lead to increase in 
power generation costs in the long run but will also involve logistics issues. 
The state however is endowed with 
immense natural resources which support renewable power generation. The state is estimated to have 13,593 
MW wind power potential at 80m hub 
height and receives an impressive global solar radiation in the range of 5.1 and 6.4 kWh perm2 during summer, 3.5 and 5.3 kWh perm2 during monsoon, and 
3.8 and 5.9 kWh per m2 during winter. 
Additionally, the state has immense biomass and small hydro resources. When compared to other states, 
Karnataka also has significant arid land 
which can be used to set up renewable energy projects.
As per the industry, Karnataka is 
strongly placed when compared to other states in terms of its ability to manage the intermittency problem caused by 
infirm power sources. Solar power can 
meet the daytime load and wind power can contribute during the night peak and off peak load. The state has an abundance of hydro power which can 
kick in to allow smooth transition and 
maintain grid stability.Apart from being environment-friendly, renewable based projects also have shorter project gestation periods compared to conventional energy 
projects. The typical gestation period 
of a conventional power plant is three to four years, whereas solar and wind projects need anywhere between –six to 12 months (assuming the necessary 
clearances are in place). The state by 
promoting wind and solar power plants can address the energy deficit problem in a faster and more efficient way.
Most of the capacity addition planned 
in the state and allocations from central 
stations are based on coal. Finding 
an alternative to manage peak load and energy requirements is a vital requirement for the state. As gas based generation is most flexible in terms of 
frequent and faster starts and stops as 
compared to coal based plants, which can address the significant peak deficits envisaged, and it is important to use this flexibility. GAIL’s 1,000 km pipeline 
laid out to help industries on the 
Belgaum-Dharwad-Tumkur-Bangalore belt can be leveraged to build gas based projects along the pipeline. PCKL has already planned three 700 MW projects 
under Case 2 route along the pipeline. 
The utilities in the state also use the pondage based hydro plants in order to manage energy requirements during 
summer. The state should look to use 
the uniqueness offered by each of these sources in an effective manner to meet the needs of the state. In an interaction with the regulator, it was suggested that 
utilities should intelligently mix and 
use the flexibility offered by gas and pondage based hydro plants along with the infirm power from wind and solar plants to bridge the demand-
supply gap in the state. This supply side management coupled 
with effective peak power pricing framework for power from gas plants will help the state save significant costs 
at the same time helping it successfully 
address its energy security challenges. 

CII Karnataka conference on Power            9Karnataka is one of the wind-rich states 
in India and has a potential of around 14 GW. Currently a capacity of 2214 MW 
has been installed in the state.  There 
has been a uniform capacity addition with around 225 MW per annum from 2005, whereas some other states have seen huge growth in installed capacity in 
recent years.
Abundance of resources
 In a recent study conducted by the 
C-STEP, identifies various wind rich areas after considering various 
land categories, which can be used 
constructively to enhance the state’s wind energy capacity. The districts of Bellary, Chitradurga, Chamrajnagar and parts of Kolar, Chikballapur, Hassan, 
Haveri, Gadag, Koppal and Bijapur have 
been identified as locations with the highest wind potential in Karnataka. The following pictures depict the wind 
speed densities (WPD) as identified by 
C-STEP.
Promising investment destination  
Wind power in Karnataka
Source: Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (C-STEP)The various alternatives  have been constructed based on the utilisation the suitable waste land and scrub forests for 
the development of wind power.
Hub 
height(M)Conservative 
(MW)Moderate 
(MW)Theoretical 
maximum(MW)
80m 20,400 44,780 4,51,300
100m 30,800 68,000 7,16,200
120m 35,600 79,000 8,49,000
As concluded by CSTEP, if Karnataka 
can leverage on the scrub forests and wastelands in addition to the existing 
areas at higher hub heights and greater 
capacity utilisation factor(CUF), the state has the potential to be the among the largest in terms of installed wind capacity.Pioneer state with attractive 
policies but has witnessed slowdown 
Karnataka introduced preferential tariff 
framework in 2004, which was a key enabler for investments in wind power 
projects in the state. The initial tariff set 
at 3.40 INR per unit in January 2005. This was comparatively higher than the offerings by other wind rich states. Thus, the tariff was later revised to3.70 
INR per unit for the control period 
2009-14. However, with the wind tariffs remaining stagnant for such a long control period, the state was unable to 
address the changing market dynamics. 
The Karnataka Renewable Policy 2009-
14 formulated under the supervision 
of Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited(KREDL), targeted additional capacity of 2969 MW by 2014, of which only an approximate 
1200 MW has been added till 2013. 
This slow nature of capacity addition indicates that the policy framework and the tariffs have been unable to encourage investments in the sector for 
the past five years.Karnataka wind capacity (in MW)
Locations with WPD >200W/m2 
at 80 m hub heightLocations with WPD >200W/m2 
at 100 m hub heightLocations with WPD >200W/m2 
at 120 m hub height
10       PwCThe states of Rajasthan, Gujarat and 
Maharashtra have offered preferential tariffs converting the respective markets 
conducive to investments. Rajasthan 
proposed wind tariff in the range of 5.46 INR to   5.73 INR per unit and Gujarat fixed the tariff rate at 4.61 INR per unit. These states lagged behind Karnataka in 
terms of wind capacity addition in 2005 
have fared better in the recent times.
Tamil Nadu’s preferential tariff has been 
on the lower side, but the state has seen growth due to capacity addition under group captive and third party sales. This 
was attractive due to concessional open 
access charges.
Average capacity addition (MW) and 
average FiT (INR/kWh) in the last eight years
KERC has recently revised the 
preferential tariff for wind projects to 4.20 INR per unit from 3.70 INR per unit. While an increase in tariffs is a 
positive, the industry feels that the 
increment is not in line with  market expectations. The tariff determined is fixed without any escalation for the duration of PPA.  Also the order does 
not include any indexation mechanism 
incorporating market dynamics during the control period. However with additional revenues from generation based incentives from the central 
government, the wind sector can witness 
an added push in the state.  KERC floated a discussion paper on wheeling and banking charges where the commission proposed to discontinue 
the banking facility on an annual basis 
and  introduce transmission or wheeling charges or both for all renewable energy(RE) generators seeking open 
access on par with charges applicable to 
non RE conventional power generating companies. Concessional benefits are affecting their finances adversely, as submitted by Electricity Supply 
Company Limited (Escoms) to the 
Commission. The KERC, after eliciting views from the stakeholders has  issued an order extending the applicability of the existing concessional wheeling 
and banking charges to RE generators 
until 31 March 2014.The KERC took the  decision due to lack of data supporting the argument that all  Escoms  of state are adversely affected. Average capacity addition (MW) and Average FiT (Rs/kWh)  in the last 8 years
With minor changes in the policy framework and implementation of a more streamlined approach to allocation 
and development, Karnataka may join 
the top three states in terms of annual wind capacity additions.
CII Karnataka conference on Power            11Karnataka is one of the top seven 
renewable energy rich states in India. The coastal region of Karnataka 
has been identified as supremely 
conducive for solar power generation. The maximum amount of global solar radiation occurs  in districts such as Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, 
etc. Karnataka receives global solar 
radiation in the range of 5.1 to 6.4 kWh perm2 during summer, 3.5 to 5.3 kWh perm2 during monsoon and 3.8 to 5.9 
kWh perm2 during winter.  The solar 
potential in the state as per the KREDL projections is around 5000MW.
However, the installed capacity for 
generation by grid connected solar power is only 24 MW in the state. This amounts to just about 1.2% of the total 
solar installed capacity in the country 
which is of the order of 1968 MW at the end of August 2013. 
Solar energy can play a significant role 
in securing the energy future for the long term in Karnataka. Apart from being environment friendly it can be 
generated in a decentralised and as an 
off-grid solution. As per the KREDL, around 133 grid projects of total capacity of around 3.1MW are under different stages of construction and are 
being set with the support of the Central 
Financial Assistance. Also, the KREDL along with the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) are implementing 1297 
numbers of 0.5kW and 646 numbers of 
1kW grid connected roof top systems in Karnataka. Waiting for an impetus  
Solar power in Karnataka
2   http://solargis.infoThere is also a significant potential for 
kW scale grid connected projects where in the generation and consumption 
can be managed by net metering. Any 
additional generation can be exported to the grid. Large spaces available in urban areas such as roof tops can be used for solar energy generation. 
Investors in solar energy at MW scale 
and kW scale can avail the benefits of 
accelerated depreciation to reduce the 
costs and MNRE capital subsidy for small scale projects and can help retail consumers to install rooftops at lower 
costs while enjoying the benefits of 
reduced dependence on grid.Solar development in Karnataka 
The state government introduced the Solar Power Policy 2011-16 which is expected to add projects under  
the renewable purchase obligation 
(RPO), captive generation, third party, average power purchase cost (APPC) + renewable energy certificates (REC) based projects and bundled power 
generation. The state through KREDL 
also supported various promotional projects such as grid connected solar thermal to facilitate innovation.
As per the KREDL, applications for 
1501MW have been filed for REC based 
projects and 100MW filed under the 
bundled scheme with National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). However, no allotments have been made by 
KREDL yet, except for bids invited to 
meet RPO.
Target Capacity addition as per policy (MW)Installed solar power capacities (MW) in 
different states as on 31 August 2013Global horizontal irradiation2 

12       PwCSolar RPO for Karnataka
The solar related activity in the state 
till now focussed around meeting the solar component of the RPO which is 
currently at 0.25% as prescribed by the 
KERC. A total of 200MW is required by the state to meet expected solar RPO obligation till 2015-16. Accordingly the state has successfully carried out 
bidding for setting up 200MW solar 
power projects in a process stretching over two phases. During the first phase, a capacity of 80MW has been 
successfully placed and in the second 
130MW has been placed. The bidders were mandated to offer discount on the benchmark tariff issued by the KERC which were 14.5 INR per kWh 
for Solar PV and 11.35 INR per kWh for 
solar thermal. The first phase of 70MW finally allocated included 10MW of solar thermal capacity.
The tariff rate of 5.51 INR per kWh of 
L1 bidder is the lowest tariff witnessed among solar PV bids across the country.  
The weighted average cost of electricity 
from solar power for Karnataka for the entire 200MW is 7.54 INR per kWh. The state will be able to comfortably achieve and exceed its solar RPO of 0.25% post 
the commissioning of the allocated 
200MW.The industry is of the opinion that encouraging capacity additions with a primary objective of meeting solar RPOs limits the ability of the state to take 
advantage of the existing potential. The 
neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have introduced ambitious policies and invited bids with a target of setting up upto 1GW 
and 3GW of capacity respectively 
(irrespective of RPO requirements). Based on the final price decided, around 135MW is expected to be signed in 
Andhra Pradesh and close to 700MW to 
be signed in Tamil Nadu.
Karnataka can also look at increasing 
the solar RPO component and aim at higher capacity to be added under the RPO category. The solar components of RPOs are finalised by most states 
during 2010 and 2011, when the cost of 
energy from solar was over 15 INR per unit. Given the significant drop in the cost of solar energy in the last few years, it makes a strong case for the states to 
revise the existing targets to a higher 
level for their solar RPO. Attractive preferential tariff for 
the solar PV and solar thermal projects
The KERC has recently (10 October 
2013) introduced tariffs for solar PV, solar thermal and rooftop projects 
that are quite attractive. It has rolled 
out a tariff of 8.40 INR per unit for solar PV projects and 10.92 INR per unit for solar thermal power plants for projects entering into power purchase 
agreements from 1 April 2013 to 31 
March 2018.  The tariff is the same for projects being setup with and without availing accelerated depreciation 
benefits.
In a positive move, the KERC has also 
waived wheeling, banking and cross 
subsidy surcharges for the solar projects selling electricity through open access route within the state. This is applicable for both third party and group captive 
mechanisms. Earlier, the KERC has 
extended banking facilities to solar power projects from 25 March 2013.
•	 The KERC has also addressed grid 
connectivity issues in the order. It mandates the state transmission utility (STU) to arrange necessary 
facilities to evacuate power from 
the interconnection point. The developer will have to create the necessary evacuation system till the interconnection point. 
Capacity allocated and  
tariffs realisedTop 5 states  with highest solar RPO and capacity required: FY14
CII Karnataka conference on Power            13Kilowatt scale roof-top, off-grid 
systems and open access systems
In the last few years, the cost of 
generation from solar energy sources is seen to be dropping significantly to 
about 8 to 9 INR per unit. The cost of 
generation may reduce further going forward with the evolution of better efficiency products, larger systems and optimisation of BOS systems. The cost of 
energy drawn from grid has increased 
considerably in the same period to around 5.65 INR per unit for industrial, 7.25 INR per unit for commercial 
consumers and 5.85 INR per unit for 
domestic consumers. 
As per the industry, it makes considerable 
economic sense for the commercial and industrial consumer to hedge their electricity cost by investing in a captive 
generation source or setup grid, off 
grid roof top or ground mount systems. Similarly the domestic consumers can install solar roof-top systems and enjoy the benefit of being self sufficient and 
even export energy to the grid.
The KERC has announced tariff and net 
metering policy for the rooftop and small 
solar power plants. It has announced a tariff of 9.56 INR per unit for rooftop and small solar power plants, INR 7.20 per unit for project which avail 30% capital 
subsidy provided by the MNRE.As per the order, for the solar rooftop 
PV systems connected to the LT grid, net metering will be adopted and if energy generated exceeds the energy consumed during a particular billing period, the 
ESCOMs shall pay the rooftop consumer 
for the surplus energy injected into the grid at the tariff determined in the order (9.56 INR per unit). Further, if the energy consumed by the rooftop consumer 
exceeds the energy generated during a 
billing period, the rooftop consumer shall pay the ESCOM for energy consumed at the retail supply tariff applicable for 
that category as per the prevailing tariff 
orders. 
Net metering policy is expected to play 
a key role in encouraging investments in grid connected roof top or ground mounted systems. The policy if implemented with specific guidelines  
will  incentivise the consumers to 
establish the solar rooftop and small scale solar PV projects.
For the open access systems, not much 
capacity has emerged in the state till date. However, the recent tariff order waived off wheeling and banking charges 
for open access sales. These incentives 
will definitely help IPPs setup solar power projects for sale of power under third party or group captive mechanism and investment in the sector for availing 
accelerated depreciation benefits. 
The state has also planned setting up of a 
solar park with a maximum capacity of 
upto 500MW which will accommodate both solar PV and solar thermal capacities. The solar park can bring in scale benefits 
in aspects related to evacuation, land 
acquisition, water supply and getting required statutory approvals. It can accommodate projects which will sell power to utility at FIT or tariff realised under the 
bidding route and projects which supply 
power to third party or captive consumer through the open access. While the discussions regarding the proposed solar park are in progress for a year, the industry is awaiting updates on 
the progress achieved till date and the 
materialising of the solar park project. 
Highlights of the industry favourable 
policies in various states.
Gujarat
•	Target capacity addition of 500MW
•	Wheeling charges -2% in kind
•	Incentives: 
 -Exempted from electricity duty
 -Exemption from demand cut to an extent 
of 50% of installed capacity
•	Solar generation not subject to scheduling and forecasting
Rajasthan
•	Target capacity of 10 GW - 12 GW
•	 Projects under varoius modes  - MNRE GBI 
scheme, REC, bundling scheme, RPO sales, Roof top etc
•	Pilot demonstration projects
•	Solar parks of >1000MW waiver from scheduling and forecasting
Andhra Pradesh
•	Incentives valid for 7 years
•	2% banking charges 
•	Electricity duty exemption
•	No CSS for third party OA transaction
•	No transmission and wheeling charges
•	Refund of VAT for equipments, registration 
charges for land purchased for project
Tamil Nadu
•	3 GW capacity to be added 
•	6% SPO on HT consumers
•	Promotion of roof top solar projects with 
GBI benefits and power credits for excess generation
•	100% exemption from demand cut
•	Electricity tax exemption for 5 years
•	Promotion of Solar parks Energy charges (INR/kWh): Karnataka 
14       PwCJNNSM Phase II
The Union Cabinet has recently approved 
Phase II of the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM) programme. 
The SECI as a nodal agency is overseeing 
the programme and has recently issued a request for proposals (RfP) to set up 750 MW of grid-connected PV projects under the viability gap funding scheme. 
According to the RfP guidelines, projects 
developed under the JNNSM Phase II, Batch 1 will receive a tariff of 5.45 INR per kWh for 25 years under the normal 
mode and 4.905 INR per kWh if executed 
under the accelerated depreciation mode. The tariffs are comparable to the short term power purchase rates of Karnataka.
Investors planning to setup capacity 
under the JNNSM will consider states 
which are more supportive for project 
execution. The state can attract capacity under the JNNSM if the government can offer support to the developers in key aspects like land acquisition or obtain 
land under lease,  setting up solar parks 
with the evacuation infrastructure,  waiver or discount of any charges imposed for a new project creation in the state. Single window clearance through 
the KREDL can be facilitated to increase 
the ease of execution.
Batch-2 of the JNNSM Phase II is 
expected to come under the bundled scheme wherein solar capacity will be bundled with thermal in order to bring 
down the cost of purchase for a state. 
Presently, application for 100MW of solar capacity is being implemented by the NTPC under the bundled scheme. The state can also consider similar model to 
drive down the cost of purchase.

CII Karnataka conference on Power            15Unlike power, which is a subject under 
the concurrent list  oil and gas (O&G) is a central subject and comes under the 
aegis of the Ministry of Petroleum and 
Natural Gas (MoPNG). This limits the role that any state in India can play by influencing the commodity price and the commodity allocation. While oil has 
historically been a prized commodity 
for serving energy needs of the country. Especially given the dependence of the transport sector on oil, the rising prices 
of oil over the last two decades has made 
the world look at gas as an alternative. The natural gas use in India was 64 BCM in FY 2010-11 and 62 BCM in FY 2011-12. It needs to be noted that there is a 
clear distinction between the potential 
demand and actual consumption and the numbers vary widely.
According to the International Energy 
Agency (IEA), the gas demand in India is estimated to be 174.27 BCM by 2020 and 276.39 BCM by 2030. The key drivers  
are the industrial and power generation 
sectors. This translates into an annual increase of 4.7%. 
Sector-wise domestic gas consumption in 
FY 12Addressing peaking  
power requirement 
Gas Sector in Karnataka
Demand for natural gas in the 
power natural gas demand in India generation sector
Demand for natural gas in power sector 
is driven by three major factors:
•	 Electricity demand: This is the 
primary driver for use of natural gas for electricity generation. The 
higher electricity demand in a state 
will drive the need for enhancing gas-based capacity region. This in turn will lead to a demand for primary sources of energy such as 
coal and natural gas.
•	 Gas availability: Given the scarcity of natural gas, the areas where 
it is available, either naturally or by being on a pipeline route or by virtue of being in the vicinity 
of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) 
terminal, there is a strong case for developing a gas-based power plant. 
•	 Competitiveness of gas: Fired vs.  Coal-fired plants: The economics per unit of power generated is a key factor that contributes to choosing 
one fuel over another. While the 
price of coal is lower, the operating efficiency of a gas-fired power plant is higher than that of a coal-fired power plant. Additionally, gas is a 
cleaner fuel when compared with 
coal.
Further, the demand of gas to fuel power generation capacity in India can be analysed under three categories:
1. Demand emanating from the 
existing capacity which is not operating at an optimum Plant Load Factor (PLF)
2. Demand generated as a result of the new gas based capacity addition 
proposed under the  Five Year Plans
3. Demand resulting from the decentralised generation sector 
which includes captive or peaking plants set up near cities with intensive industrial activity
Needless to mention that the drivers for demand of gas as fuel to power sector in 
Karnataka is no different. For Karnataka 
as a state to register rapid industrial development, it is important to minimise the shortage of power for industrial activities. Gas can be the answer to 
Karnataka’s power deficit, especially for 
bridging the peaking demand-supply gap, given the ability of gas turbines to start generating power effectively and urgently. 
Projected sector-wise natural gas demand in 
India
16       PwCSupply of natural gas in the 
power generation sector
The supply of natural gas for all the 
associated sectors of the economy is serviced through two sources that are 
domestic and imported gas. While 
domestic gas usage is subject to the gas utilisation policy, the supply in imported gas is governed by market forces. As per the gas utilisation policy
3, power 
generation is the third in priority after urea-based fertilisers and LPG sectors. 
For LNG, the buyers need to book 
capacities in the terminal to secure gas. Presently, there is no preference to customers belonging to a specific sector for securing natural gas. 
Owing to the decline in production 
from India’s largest gas field, KG-D6, the 
gas is primarily being allocated to urea 
based fertiliser plants. This has resulted in either shutting down of power plants or  operations at the sub-optimal PLF. 
This is more pronounced in southern 
India including Karnataka where power generation capacities were added due to the availability of gas from the D6 block. 
Given the decline in production, a series 
of LNG projects have been planned by both the public and private sector 
companies operating in the O&G 
and infrastructure space. Most of the future LNG terminals are expected to come up on the west coast, owing to its proximity to the gas exporting 
countries in the Middle-East, which in 
turn will benefit Karnataka as a state from the gas availability perspective. Another mode of import of natural gas is Existing and proposed LNG terminals in India
through cross-country pipelines. There have been major gas discoveries in the recent past in Central Asia and Eastern 
Africa around the Caspian Sea Belt. The 
first proposed cross-country pipeline, which is the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India pipeline (TAPI pipeline), is expected to service India’s natural gas 
demand by 2017. The northern states are 
set to benefit more from cross-country pipelines while southern states like Karnataka are set to benefit more from 
LNG. The map and the table below show 
the existing and proposed LNG projects in India. Gas for peaking power
The electricity generated from power plants cannot be stored and has to be produced when  needed. This provides 
an opportunity for gas based power 
producers an opportunity to generate power and inject in the grid during the peak-load season. 
The decentralised power generation 
constituting smaller capacities coming 
close to load centres will  mainly support 
peaking needs in the long run. However, in the short run ( four  to five  years), we may even see the gas based projects running as base load plants. These  
projects have their advantages as being  
ideal for captive power needs (set close to consumption point) since it’s quick to set up, its fuel is easier to transport, it is 
cleaner to operate, is highly efficient and 
it can be ramped up or down effortlessly without loss of performance. 
3 As per EGoM meeting held on 25 June 2008Project Location Developer Capacity   
(mmtpa) LNG Suppliers  
Mundra (Gujarat) GSPC 7.5 Talks in progress 
Ennore (Tamil Nadu) IOCL 5 Talks in progress 
Paradip (Orissa) IOCL 5 Not Decided 
Chhara (Junagadh District) HPCL 5 Not Decided 
Dighi Port Hiranandani Group 8 Not Decided 
AP (FSRU) APGDC/ GDF Suez  2.5 Not Decided 
Gagngavaram, AP PLL 5 NA 
CII Karnataka conference on Power            17In addition to these inherent 
advantages, such projects deliver co-generation benefits by recovery of 
energy from waste heat in to heating, 
chilling, etc. Such projects are called combined cooling heating and power projects (CCHP). With these additional benefits of waste heat recovery, the 
payback can be drastically reduced. 
Moreover, by setting up a project close to the consumption point, the consumer does not have to worry about 
open access availability, transmission 
system break-down, problems typically encountered while taking power from large IPPs over long distances. In fact, the current power policies promote co-
generation. This advantage of the gas 
based power generation has great scope in the coming years with the electricity demand growing and industry experiencing coal shortages. With more 
coal mines located in the eastern region 
and high transportation cost of coal to Karnataka, gas- fired generation may play a larger role that of base load as well as peak load generation. 
The idling capacities or new capacities 
in Karnataka can save the situation of 
the state’s peaking power deficit, which 
stood at 13.9% in FY 13, higher than the national average. The gas-based power plants in Karnataka stand to gain owing 
to Karnataka being connected to three 
sources of natural gas, viz. Dabhol LNG terminal and Kochi terminal on the west coast and the domestic gas coming from KG basin in the east coast. 
Despite the location advantage,  the 
challenges that are being faced by users 
of natural gas exist. These include delay 
in commercial operations of the Dabhol plant, steep decline in domestic gas production, weakening of the rupee against the dollar and general lack of the 
existing pipeline infrastructure for gas 
transportation.Unit tariff spread from various fuel sources
Pricing signals
As on date, the power exchanges acts as a means to meet short-term demand fluctuations. The tariffs have varied 
between 7 INR per kWh in 2008 to 
4.13 INR per kWh in 2013 at the power exchange.
The state tariff is around  5.85 INR per 
kWh for industrial consumers and 7.25 INR per kWh for commercial consumers.  In addition to high tariffs, DG sets are 
used as back-up power source by these 
consumers. This makes the effective tariff even higher, depending on the number of hours of power outage. 
At this tariff, gas is an excellent 
replacement fuel. The attractiveness of gas as a replacement fuel makes a case for gas based captive power plants, 
which will offer economy, reliability and 
quality of power supply and additional benefits of co-generation.
Since gas based plants work as an apt 
solution for peaking needs, it will also be worthwhile to compare the economics of such a plant with current sources of peaking power. With significant peak 
deficits across all regions in India, 
industrial consumers depend on diesel based generators to overcome grid power outage and run their operations.  Industrial consumers typically run on 
DG sets for an average of two  tosix  
hours daily. Even when the state distribution licensees purchase power from the trading market to meet peak deficits, the prices tend to reflect the cost of DG based power (approximately 
16 INR per unit).
Over the past five years a consistent 
rise has been seen in volumes as well 
as prices in trading market. In fact, some de-linking has been displayed in consumption and prices, indicating that consumers are ready to pay 
significant reliability premium over 
grid price to continue  business operations.  The netback price, that is, the imputed price which customers 
are willing to pay for natural gas, at 
current power trading price of  5.19 INR per kWh, works out to 9.47 USD per MMBTU. In this segment, gas seems to be comfortably placed to compete with 
other sources of power.
The challenge however lies in the price 
differential of domestic natural gas and 
RLNG.  While domestic natural gas from most of the sources is priced at 4.2 USD per MMBTU, Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved 
a price of 8.4 USD per MMBTU for 
domestic gas effective from April 2014. Further, the domestic price has been proposed to vary according to a formula as has been prescribed by the 
Rangarajan Committee. This is expected 
to bridge the gap between domestic natural gas price and LNG prices. 
18       PwCSupply chain issues for natural 
gas
The transportation of natural gas 
for power plants from the respective sources is primarily through natural gas 
pipelines. The regulator for downstream 
O&G  business, Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) is responsible for authorising entities to lay, build, expand and operate natural 
gas pipelines. Since its inception in 
2008, PNGRB has authorised five natural gas pipelines. The users of natural gas need to enter into gas sales 
and purchase agreements with the 
operators of domestic gas fields and with the marketers of LNG for imported gas. In addition to this, they need to enter into gas transportation agreements 
with owners of natural gas pipelines for 
transportation of natural gas from the source to their facilities.
Existing and proposed gas pipelines in 
Karnataka
Pipeline Operator Existing and Proposed
East-West pipeline (EWPL)Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited (RGTIL)Existing
Dabhol Bangalore pipelineGAIL (India) LimitedExisting
Kochi Bangalore pipelineGAIL (India) LimitedProposed
In addition to this, MoPNG had 
authorised Relog (a subsidiary of RGTIL) to construct the Chennai- 
Bangalore- Mangalore pipeline prior 
to the formation of PNGRB. However, owing to lack of work on the ground, the authorisation was cancelled.Gas prices in India
Natural gas pipeline of India as issued by PNGRB
The progress of the natural gas pipeline sector has been dismal to say the least. Also, the delays in commissioning of LNG projects and the steep decline in production of domestic gas have added to the woes of natural gas customers. There is a need to 
hasten the process of awarding natural gas pipelines and to arrest the steep decline 
in the production of natural gas. 
Regime Region Gas Price $/mmbtu
Gas pricing  
in IndiaAPMNorth east 2.52
Outside north east 4.20
PSCNorth east 4.20
KG basin 4.20
Cauvery basin 4.75
Western and northern Zone 5.25
PMT 5.65
R-LNGTerm R-LNG 7.53
Spot R-LNG 8.53
Prices mentioned are well head (ex - supply point) price and is exclusive of transmission cost, 
marketing margin and taxes/duties.
CII Karnataka conference on Power            19Pooled prices for natural gas
An inter-ministerial committee was 
constituted to create a policy for pooling of natural gas prices and provide a pool 
operating guidelines. In the final report 
issued by the committee in August 2011, it  did not recommend the pooling mechanism for natural gas at the overall level, nor did it recommend a price 
pooling on a sectoral basis. 
However, the committee opted for 
preferential allotment on a scheme 
of priority as a basis for allocating  domestically produced natural gas across users segments. The report then 
accorded priority to specific customer 
segments in the order as suggested by the government’s gas utilisation policy.
It may be worth noting here that post 
April 2014, the price for domestic natural gas will be determined based on the volume weighted average of the 
benchmark price of trailing natural gas 
prices at Henry Hub, National Balancing Point (NBP) and weighted average producers netback price for Japan. This has been done in the absence 
of availability of a reference index in 
India and owing to the lack of enabling infrastructure and the general lack of natural gas supply.
It may be worth noting that the lack 
of a robust pipeline network and the availability of natural gas, both 
domestic and imported have led to non-
implementation of gas in India. Also, the prices for negotiated spot and long-term contracts for LNG as compared with 
domestic natural gas prices are highly 
divergent. For Karnataka, the effective price of natural gas for end users will tend towards LNG prices, given that the state is expected to be serviced more 
by LNG than by domestic gas. This is 
owing to the proximity of the state to the existing and proposed LNG terminals and the lack of discovery of domestic gas in the vicinity of the state.Peaking power globally: 
Illustrations
Globally, there are various examples of 
people using gas based peaking power to ensure uninterrupted supply of power to 
industrial units. Some of the examples 
are as follows:
•	 Peaking power for the summer 
months in Sabbah, East Malaysia: Malaysia has been  experiencing rapid development for the last few years which  has led to increasing 
demand and consumption for 
electricity. Sabah Electricity Sdn Bhd (SESB), the sole supplier of power to the large customer base in 
Sabah, East Malaysia, was engaged 
in various generation, transmission and distribution projects in response. However, they faced an impending power shortage crisis 
as the new independent power 
plant (IPP) projects could not be completed in time to meet the burgeoning demand. The problem at hand was addressed by using gas 
based power generators in a quick 
time.
4
•	 Two gas turbines at the EDF Luminus power plant located at Angleur in Liège, Belgium, each 
capable of producing 64 MW of 
power, can achieve fast start-up in just nine minutes. This is helping EDF Luminus deliver continuity of electricity supply to households 
and businesses in Liège during 
peak demand periods. In addition, gas turbines deliver significant emissions performance benefits, 
helping EDF Luminus to ensure that 
Liège has stable access to cleaner and more efficient electricity supply. The high electrical efficiency of the turbines allows plant to obtain primary energy savings, especially when used in cogeneration or combined cycle applications where 
waste heat is also utilised.
5
•	 In India, the state of Gujarat is an 
example of how the initiatives of the state government have helped 
the state in having a well developed 
gas sector. State owned companies like GSPC and GSPL were created to develop the midstream and downstream natural gas sectors. 
The companies were given 
autonomy to create infrastructure that would allow them to market natural gas. Gujarat also had the 
advantage of having gas supplies 
from on-land gas fields and LNG terminals. This allowed the natural gas sector to flourish in the state, including the increased availability 
of natural gas for captive power 
stations and gas based power plants, including for peaking power. The results are evident from Load Generation Balance Report 2013-14 
by CEA which shows that the only 
0.3% of Gujarat’s peaking power requirement was left unmet in FY 2012-13 as compared to a national average of 9% deficit
6
   
4  http://blogs.terrapinn.com/total-electricity/2013/04/30/case-study-peaking-power-summer-
months-sabbah-east-malaysia/
5 http://www.rolls-royce.com/sustainability/casestudies/efficient_peaking_power_supply.jsp
6 http://www.cea.nic.in/reports/yearly/lgbr_report.pdf
20       PwCIn addition to the key factors such as 
potential in the state and the tariffs, the industry believes that improvements can 
take place on various fronts to enable 
growth in clean energy in the country and in Karnataka.
Land acquisitions
Land acquisition is one of the key issues faced by the industry today. As per the industry, average time taken for 
completing land acquisition is closer to 
one  year in the state. 
As a policy, currently companies 
cannot acquire agricultural land. It has to be converted to non-agricultural (NA) land for it to be acquired. This process of identifying land, request for 
conversion and acquisition is a time 
consuming process. It is important for the government to empower KREDL and hold the agency responsible to 
facilitate land acquisition or make 
amendments to enable wind power developers to purchase agricultural land in a less cumbersome way. Also, there is no time-frame defined for converting 
agricultural land to non-agricultural 
use-alienation. Currently the process takes around eight to nine months. 
In the Renewable Policy 2009-14 some 
specific measures were specified for land acquisition, which if implemented will  promote both solar and wind 
investments in the state. Key enablers for growth  
of clean technologies and 
the way forward
Ease of execution
In addition to the regulatory framework 
another  facilitator of investments in the sector is the ease of execution. 
The developers today have to undergo 
complex and time-consuming processes to obtain the necessary approvals and clearances for development of renewable projects. 
The state has allocated wind projects 
with total capacity of 12 GW out which 
only 2.2 GW has been commissioned, 
6.6 GW is yet to be commissioned and the rest (3.5 GW) has either been rejected, surrendered, or cancelled. 
The capacity yet to be commissioned is 
either stuck due to land acquisition or clearances issues, or lack of intent from the developers. The feedback from the industry is that the allocation committee 
meetings do not take place as often as 
they should. As a result more than 2.5 GW capacity is waiting to be allocated. 
Additionally the single window 
clearance system promised by the policy is not being implemented in reality and developers continue to spend significant 
amount of time in liasioning with 
different offices to obtain the necessary approvals. 
The stakeholders in the sector also 
feel that the allocation process at the moment is too opaque and the government needs to bring in a more 
transparent framework which helps 
everyone involved understand the basis and methodology of allocations. In addition the framework should also 
incorporate specific timelines and 
milestones for the allotments made along with stringent cancellation and termination provisions to ensure the allotments turn into meaningful 

CII Karnataka conference on Power            21capacity additions. Some of these 
provisions are already provided for in the policy documents, what is needed is 
willingness from the involved agencies 
to enforce the policy provisions.
KREDL declared the setting up of a 
technical committee which is looking into the formulation of a separate wind energy policy besides updating the existing solar energy policy and that a 
draft in this regard was being circulated 
among experts and stakeholders to get their views.
Evacuation infrastructure
Obtaining evacuation approval today takes significant amount of time because Karnataka Power Transmission 
Company Limited (KPTCL) doesn’t 
have a separate department or a team for overseeing evacuation related work for non-conventional energy sources. The industry also feels that the current 
system has a redundant process with 
respect to obtaining the necessary approvals during various stages leading to delays in taking up projects. 
Karnataka is expected to add substantial 
amount of renewable energy during 
the 12th Plan period. It is important 
for KPTCL to take into account the renewable capacities being added during annual system planning and strengthen the network adequately. 
KPTCL should take into account the 
following while developing evacuation infrastructure for RE projects: 
•	 RE potential is location specific: 
The renewable energy potential is location specific and most of the good potential sites are located 
either in remote areas or areas 
with complex terrains. As per the industry, evacuation infrastructure at Devangere, Chitradurga and Gadag is fully utilised and cannot 
evacuate any significant capacities 
in the future. Bijapur and Raichur are also expected to face similar problems in the near future. Grid capacity augmentation in such key regions is a must to avoid bottling 
up of generation potential. 
•	 Intermittency: Solar and wind energy are intermittent in nature. 
Integrating such RE sources effectively which produce peak energy during different times of the day, will reduce supply fluctuation 
and leads to better utilisation of the 
transmission system.  
Regulatory support for clean 
technologies
Policy certainty with regards to 
preferential tariffs, open access framework and encouraging policies 
for RE technologies play a huge role 
in encouraging lenders and equity investors to invest in projects. Ensuring the same will go a long way in capacity additions from clean technologies for 
the state.
The KERC has came out with significant 
orders on the wind and solar tariff order 
in recent times, and also extended the concessional wheeling and banking benefits currently available for the wind 
sector till 31 March 2014. The tariffs 
determined and incentives offered for solar look extremely positive and are expected to promote solar and wind power development in the state, more 
clarity on certain aspects especially with 
regard to solar such as those mentioned below will provide comfort to the industry:
•	 The tariffs are baselines rates for 
bidding or preferential tariffs for all developers to sell to the utility 
•	 Capacity which the state would tie up under this tariff 
•	 Validity of the incentives available for open access transactions 
•	 Offtake obligation of utilities of the excess energy generated by solar 
roof top PV systems

22       PwCMore importantly introduction of net 
metering connectivity with specific guidelines will go a long way in 
encouraging kilo watt scale systems 
in the state. Also, in the consultative paper, the KERC discussed option about providing certain tariff for off-grid solar power generators for avoided utilisation 
of grid power. However this aspect is not 
covered by the tariff order.
Apart from concessional charges for 
renewable generators, the state needs to  introduce time based and simple procedure for open access approval 
mechanism. Currently, direct consumers 
and renewable energy generators have to follow a rigorous open access approval mechanism to make this sales arrangement successful. Innovation in technology
Innovation in technology is important for bringing further efficiency and effectiveness in the clean energy 
technologies. Following are key views 
from the industry:
•	 Karnataka  with the presence of 
some of the key domestic module manufacturers and solar EPC players, needs to support research and manufacturing in the state 
by way of offering appropriate 
incentives. This is in line with the state’s Semi Conductor Policy of 2010. 
•	 The country needs to support and take up more demonstration 
projects to try out new concepts in 
clean energy generation. Concepts like grid scale storage systems, peaking power supply systems, hybrid mechanism, and smart 
grid systems to address renewable 
integration can be tested out.
•	 While solar PV systems have been reinventing and improving over the period of time, not much of the installed capacity in solar thermal is added and the country lacks 
capability in the design and project 
execution. Continuous support from the government is required in promoting solar thermal technology to exploit the high irradiation level 
the country receives.Effective use of gas based 
generation
Peak deficits can be tackled effectively 
by using the gas based capacities in Karnataka to produce peaking power. 
The LNG terminals in the vicinity of 
Karnataka can be utilised to fuel these power plants. Also, the spread between future LNG price and cost of power from alternative fuels is bound to drive the 
usage of gas based plants for peaking 
power. The state needs to develop a gas market to effectively use gas based plants. Some steps which can help create 
a natural gas market are as follows:
Enhancement of gas transportation 
infrastructure in the state: GAIL 
Limited and Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (KSIIDC) entered into a MoU in April 2009 to develop spur 
lines along the main pipeline route 
to provide gas connections to major cities and industrial areas. The MoU is aimed at providing natural gas infrastructure and city gas distribution 
(CGD) in Karnataka. With the recent 
commissioning of the Dabhol- Bangalore pipeline, Bangalore is now a part of the gas grid. These are encouraging developments however the state needs 
to ensure that the last mile connectivity 
is provided to larger gas-based power generators.
Ensuring supply of natural gas to 
power units: Given the multiple stakeholders involved in the gas 
purchase process, viz. the E&P company, 
LNG terminal, the gas marketer and the pipeline operator, small power producers may not have enough resources to secure gas in a timely 
manner. The government, through the 
state industrial body can help the small players by assisting them in procuring natural gas.
CII Karnataka conference on Power            23Assistance with funding requirement: 
The procurement of natural gas necessitates the consumers to place a 
bank guarantee with the gas supplier, 
which is usually a percentage of the estimated annual contracted supply value. It may be difficult for small players to provide such a guarantee in 
a sustained manner. The government 
could assist these companies by being a guarantor on behalf of a cluster of power developers.
Pricing signals for peak usage: The 
cost of generating electricity is higher 
during the peak period than during the 
off-peak hours. This higher generating cost arises from the higher fuel cost as well as the higher capacity cost per hour of the plants used to supply peak power. 
Due to these peculiar characteristics 
the state should look at providing differential tariffs for generation at peak and providing necessary incentives to encourage investors to set up LNG based 
peaking power plants.Other specific policy enablers
Special development zones: Karnataka 
announced its intent to set up the renewable Special Economic Zones 
(SEZ) and KREDL was to provide 
10% of current and future SEZs for development of RE projects. These are referred to as renewable energy economic zones. Some sites have been 
identified to be developed and specific 
timelines for approvals and clearances have been specified. The current status with regard to the implementation 
is unknown, however if the SEZs are 
implemented it will provide a significant boost to the sector.
Establishment of reliable ground 
measurement data: Non-availability of reliable site potential data makes the accurate evaluation of the returns 
from a project, technology selection and 
financing very difficult. Going forward the state should plan along with central agencies for additional assessment stations for renewable technologies. 
Financing of RE projects: In the RE 
Policy 2009-14, a Green Energy Fund 
for providing concessional loans to 
renewable project was announced as a welcome step. The fund is accumulated by levying 0.05 INR/kWh on commercial and industrial customers and is expected 
to generate capital of 55 crore INR 
annually. This fund is expected to promote Public-private partnership mode, decentralised generation and 
distribution RE projects for the benefit of 
rural sector. If these funds are deployed effectively the state can witness an increase in investments.
Reallocation of cancelled projects: 
The state government should come up with a definitive road map and a 
framework on reallocation of cancelled 
projects. 

24       PwCKey takeaways  

CII Karnataka conference on Power            25•	 The state government’s 
commitment and supportive policies and regulatory frameworks 
are vital for capacity addition in the 
wind and solar sector. 
•	 The role of government as a facilitator by providing infrastructure for wind and solar energy projects like connectivity, electricity, water supply, land 
approvals and clearances, etc. 
•	 The understanding of new emerging business models for wind and solar 
energy projects. •	 Several issues, challenges and risks are involved in financing wind and solar projects. 
•	 The availability of various financing options from private equity 
players, banks and other financial 
institutions are essential for the success of Wind and solar projects. 
•	 Key advancements are happening in future wind and solar technologies. How they can enhance efficiency from the projects.
•	 Initiatives such as smart metering, net metering, smart grid, etc. can 
help in efficient management of 
wind and  solar projects. •	 Need for Forecasting and 
scheduling of wind and solar energy 
to enhance the grid efficiency and requirements to do so. 
•	 Problems and risks being faced by developers while forecasting and scheduling.
•	 Requirement for using gas based power as peaking power, issues faced by gas based power players 
•	 Understanding gas supply chain issues and infrastructure 
requirements
•	 Gas pooled pricing policy effectiveness for reviving gas based 
power plantsThe conference will showcase the changes needed at the policy and regulatory level to encourage investments in clean technologies in Karnataka. It will also serve as a platform to discus and identify new investment opportunities and secure future energy requirements of the state. Some key takeaways expected from the conference are listed below:
26       PwCAbout CII 
Contacts  
 
Ramesh K  
Director & Head, Karnataka State Office 
Confederation of Indian Industry No 1086, 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage Indiranagar, Bangalore - 560038 
Tel - 080-4288 9595 / Fax - 080-2527 6709 
E: ramesh.k@cii.in  
 
Reshmi Mohandas Executive Confederation of Indian Industry 
No 1086, 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage 
Indiranagar, Bangalore - 560038 Tel - 080-4288 9595 / Fax - 080-2527 6709 E: reshmi.mohandas@cii.in The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an environment conducive to 
the development of India, partnering industry, Government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing a 
proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association has over 7100 members, from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 enterprises from around 257 national and regional sectoral industry bodies.
CII charts change by working closely with Government on policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, 
and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialized services and strategic global linkages. It also provides a platform for consensus-building and networking on key issues.
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify and execute corporate citizenship 
programmes. Partnerships with civil society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, 
Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus on accountability, transparency and measurement in the corporate and social eco-system, building a knowledge economy, and broad-basing development to help deliver the fruits of progress to all.
With 63 offices, including 10 Centres of Excellence, in India, and 7 overseas offices in Australia, China, 
Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international business community.
CII Karnataka conference on Power            27About PwC 
Contacts  
 
Kameswara Rao  
Executive Director, Leader, Energy, Utilities and Mining 
Phone: +91-40-6624 6688 email: kameswara.rao@in.pwc.com  
Deepak Mahurkar 
Director, Oil & Gas Phone: +91-11-330 6072 email: deeoak.mahurkar@in.pwc.com  
Sunil Kumar 
Associate Director, Energy and Utilities Phone: +91-40-6624 6203 email: sunil.kumar@in.pwc.com PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. 
We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi 
NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, each 
of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0: For general use
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 103 - October 2013 CII-Karnataka.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
