Title: Socio-economic impact of mHealth: An assessment report for Brazil and Mexico
Date Published: 2013-06-14 08:53:53-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_socio-economic-impact-of-mhealth-brazil-and-mexico.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

www.pwc.in
Socio-economic 
impact of mHealth
An assessment report for  
Brazil and MexicoJune 2013
Executive summary  03 | Socio-economic impact of mHealth  05 | Overcoming the barriers to 
adoption  20 | Appendices  25
2 PwCThis report was commissioned by the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programme.
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  3
Capturing the socio-economic potential of 
mHealth requires immediate action from 
regulators and payersExecutive summarySection 01
As their populations age, both Brazil and Mexico are 
experiencing a need to shift the relative balance of healthcare 
intervention from acute care to continuous care. However, while 
the shift to continuous care is happening, there still remains 
a significant challenge in these populous emerging markets 
to provide and sustain universal healthcare. Amidst their 
infrastructural, human and financial limitations, healthcare 
systems in Brazil and Mexico are struggling to cope.
mHealth provides significant advantages that could help these 
healthcare systems achieve greater impact with the same access 
to human and financial resources. According to PwC’s analysis, 
by 2017 the potential of mHealth will be significant:
• mHealth could enable an additional 28.4 million people 
access to the healthcare system in Brazil, and an additional 
15.5 million to the same in Mexico, without having to add  
a doctor. 
• Total healthcare spend (public and private) could be reduced 
by 14 billion USD in Brazil and 3.8 billion USD in Mexico 
while providing the same care impact.
• These savings would be enough to treat an additional 4.3 
million patients in Brazil, and an additional 2.3 million  
in Mexico.
• Enhanced productivity could add 4.6 billion USD and 8.4 
billion USD to the GDP of Brazil and Mexico respectively 
through increased wages and taxes.
The table below shows how the impact of mHealth on care costs 
can add up: 
Range of mHealth benefits in 2017 Unit Brazil Mexico
100% adoption  
(full potential )10% adoption  
(if no action taken)100% adoption  
(full potential )10% adoption  
(if no action taken)
Estimated population in 2017 mn 216.6 121.1
Additional patients reached mn 28.4 3 15.5 1.7
Total care cost saved bn USD 14.1 1.5 3.8 0.4
Public care cost saved bn USD 6.9 0.7 1.9 0.2
Additional patients accommodated 
within cost savings mn 4.3 0.7 2.3 0.3
Additional economic output 
generated by healthier patients bn USD 4.6 0.5 8.4 0.9
Source: PwC analysis
4 PwCHowever, even though mHealth concepts have been proven to 
work in numerous pilots around the world and have been trialled 
in Brazil and Mexico as well, mHealth led benefits outlined above 
are still to be achieved.
Multiple adoption barriers – regulatory, economic, structural 
and technological – stand in the way. For this reason the initial 
focus for driving adoption rests on policy makers, regulators 
and payers. The lack of a regulatory framework that establishes 
accountability of various stakeholders, the absence of clearly 
defined business models and the fragmented and performance-
agnostic nature of healthcare systems are some of the barriers 
that aggravate the reluctance to adopt mHealth created by a lack 
of clear evidence. 
Since the barriers are systemic, the immediate onus lies on policy 
makers, regulators and payers to drive and adopt change. 
Some of the changes that need to be brought about include:
• Policy makers in Brazil and Mexico need to formally integrate 
mHealth into nationwide healthcare strategy, establishing 
a regulatory framework that harmonises the regulations 
between healthcare and mobile services, and removes  
policy barriers that are currently preventing remote diagnosis 
and monitoring of patients.
• Payers must introduce incentives for patients and healthcare 
providers to adopt mHealth. The regulators and payers 
should work with the governments and healthcare providers 
to mandate greater cohesion across the various healthcare 
providers and reward performance gains from mHealth.
• Further, policy makers need to support the development and 
use of mHealth by educating the doctors and patients on the 
benefits of these solutions and training healthcare providers 
on these solutions.14.1
3.812.3
3.10.34
0.112.59
1.020.02
0.011.1
0.4
All figures are in bn USD
2017 data has been reportedAll figures are in bn USD
2017 data has been reported=
=+
++
++
+_
_Total healthcare
 cost savings
Total healthcare
 cost savingsWellness and 
prevention
Wellness and 
preventionDiagnosis
DiagnosisTreatment and 
monitoring
Treatment and 
monitoringSystem 
efficiencies
System 
efficienciesWorkforce to  
support mHealth
Workforce to  
support mHealthMexicoBrazil
Without these interventions, this report estimates that Brazil 
and Mexico would only see around 10% of the potential benefits 
from mHealth. Based on several months of analysis, research 
and expert interviews, for the first time this report sets out an 
authoritative view on the socio-economic potential of mHealth. 
Throughout the report, we point out in year impacts in 2017  
in order to illustrate the step-change impact mHealth can have 
on society. 
Although the development of mHealth will be gradual, we do not 
expect significant increases in uptake in the coming years until 
there is intervention by policy makers and service providers. 
The purpose of the report is to articulate how the impacts will 
be created by mHealth, so that governments, regulators, payers 
and other important stakeholders can take forward specific 
initiatives and policy interventions that will enable us collectively 
to capture the real potential of mHealth.
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  5Socio-economic 
impact of mHealthSection 02
2.1. Current healthcare challenges in 
Brazil and Mexico
While the economies of Brazil and Mexico progress, the 
healthcare challenges these countries face are becoming more 
comparable to those of developed countries. The healthcare 
systems in Brazil and Mexico, which are undergoing a transition 
to providing universal healthcare, need to add capabilities that 
can help them address current and emerging challenges while 
also more efficiently using limited resources. Mobile technologies 
that support the delivery of healthcare offer benefits that  
could be highly relevant to the current needs of these  
healthcare systems.
Universal healthcare systems
The healthcare systems in Brazil and Mexico are different in 
their own right, but face comparable challenges. While private 
healthcare has significant presence in Brazil and Mexico, 
both countries aim to provide universal healthcare through 
public institutions - Sistema Unicare Saude (SUS) in Brazil 
and Seguro Popular in Mexico. SUS is leading the transition to 
universal healthcare in Brazil since 1988, while Seguro Popular 
was formed in Mexico in 2003 in order to provide universal 
healthcare to its population. These institutions aim to provide 
equitable and affordable access to healthcare funded by public 
resources and which have a specific focus on the population that 
is usually not covered by any public or private insurance.Lack of resources and access
Brazil and Mexico have a considerable gap in physical and 
human healthcare resources compared, for example, to OECD 
countries. This shortage of resources restricts the availability 
of universal healthcare to only around 50% of the population, 
leaving 85 million Brazilians1 and 52 million Mexicans2 outside 
the coverage of universal healthcare. Most hospitals are clustered 
in urban centres, and improving access to healthcare in rural 
areas is a challenge. The lack of healthcare facilities in rural 
or low income areas also creates an inequality in access to 
healthcare. In Brazil, 80% of patients covered by SUS can be 
assigned to hospitals within their home area1. But since low 
income areas have fewer hospitals, residents in these areas are 
either not assigned to hospitals or experience high waiting times 
compared to those residents of wealthier areas.
1. Source: www.thelancet.com, The Brazilian health system: history, advances, and challenges
2. Source: www.thelancet.com, The quest for universal health coverage: achieving social protection for all in MexicoBrazil Mexico OECD
Physician gap (‘000) Hospital Bed gap (‘000)Brazil and Mexico lag behind OECD countries in terms of 
availability of hospitals and physicians “A lack of infrastructure, the need for improved 
facilities for nurses and doctors, and a need to 
improve the effectiveness of doctors so that diseases 
can be treated with minimum doctor consultations 
across a fragmented healthcare system are a few 
challenges Mexico’s healthcare sector faces.” 
Guadalupe Aparicio, IMSS
Source: The World Bank, PwC analysis:
::
:
6 PwCHigh private spending
Lack of adequate access and quality in public healthcare 
have forced people, especially amongst low income or rural 
population, to seek care from private healthcare facilities. This 
has resulted in high and persistent out-of-pocket spending on 
healthcare. Even though both these countries have been making 
efforts to increase their public spending, its share is still relatively 
low compared to other countries, such as in the EU, that have 
similar universal healthcare systems. The lack of public funding 
has also been contributing to the high private spending.Changing disease profiles and shift in healthcare needs
The profile of diseases in Brazil and Mexico is now much more 
dominated by chronic diseases than by infectious diseases. Rising 
urbanisation, cultural diet habits and unhealthy lifestyles have 
resulted in lower physical activity levels, which have given rise 
to a growing incidence of chronic diseases. With much lower 
prevalence rates, infectious or communicable diseases may not 
pose as big a healthcare burden as the chronic diseases in the 
future. The healthcare systems of both these countries have 
historically been designed to provide the acute care needed for 
infectious diseases. With the rising incidence of chronic diseases, 
the demand on healthcare systems ill-equipped to deal with 
these diseases could become unmanageable. It is reasonable to 
expect that the quality of care will decline, while healthcare costs 
continue to grow.
Diabetes CVD Obesity Hypertension HIV TBPublic healthcare 
expenditure (% of 
total healthcare 
expenditure)Non out-of-pocket private 
healthcare expenditure (% 
of total expenditure on 
healthcare)Out-of-pocket 
healthcare expenditure 
(% of total expenditure 
on healthcare)
Public healthcare 
expenditure (% of 
total healthcare 
expenditure)Non out-of-pocket 
private healthcare 
expenditure (% of total 
healthcare expenditure)Out-of pocket 
healthcare expenditure 
(% of total healthcare 
expenditure)Split of healthcare spending in Brazil
Prevalence rate* (%) of different medical conditions (2011 or 
latest)
Rising per capita healthcare costs (in USD)Split of healthcare spending in Mexico
Source: The World Bank, PwC analysis
Source: The World Bank, PwC analysisBrazil Mexico*Figures reported are of 2011 or the latest data available, for TB incidence has 
been reported, data for COPD only available for Brazil. Assumed same rate for 
Mexico
Source: The World Bank, IDF, Atsjournals, Scielo, OECD 2011, WHO, PubMed, 
Ripsa (Brazil government), Sbpt, PwC analysis 
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  7Sustaining universal healthcare
Specific capabilities need to be built within the public healthcare 
systems of both these countries to sustain universal healthcare. 
It is critical to improve the quality of care for chronic diseases 
and reduce disease incidence in order to efficiently utilise the 
limited healthcare resources in Brazil and Mexico. This will allow 
Mexico and Brazil to extend universal healthcare access to the 
population that is still not covered without having to add an 
inordinately high volume of healthcare resources.
2.2. Addressing the challenges through 
mHealth solutions
Mobile technologies can connect systems and people, irrespective 
of their location. Technologies such as mHealth solutions could 
prove to be an effective tool for the healthcare systems in Brazil 
and Mexico, as they can enhance the quality and reach of care. 
mHealth solutions could improve clinical decision-making and 
coordination within hospitals and across the healthcare system 
by analysing electronic medical records. By enabling remote 
treatment and monitoring, patients can now be treated, staying 
at home, thus bringing down the cost of care. Doctors’ time 
could thus be better allocated and beds in hospitals can be made 
available for other patients. The enhanced reach provided by 
mHealth could even extend the access of care to rural and low 
income people.
Assessing socio-economic impact
mHealth could make healthcare delivery fairer by lowering 
the cost of care and increasing access. Fewer hospitalisations, 
healthier lives and a more productive healthcare delivery system 
could enable an improved economic output, an enhanced quality 
of life and an increased efficiency of healthcare spend. Therefore, 
mHealth has the potential to create a significant socio-economic 
impact by enhancing healthcare delivery across the following 
four dimensions:
• Stronger healthcare systems:  Enhancing clinical decision-
making and improving utilisation of physical and human 
healthcare resources by integrating systems, equipping staff 
with latest information and enabling real-time and easier to 
see analysis of health patterns of patients.
• Wellness and prevention:  Supporting patients and 
governments in making lives healthier by improving lifestyles, 
reducing the incidence of disease by providing education 
and through using communications to influence behavioural 
changes.
• Diagnosis:  Expediting quicker and more timely diagnosis 
of the severity of disease and lowering associated treatment 
costs.• Treatment and monitoring:  Administering continuous care 
more efficiently to chronic patients through mobile-based 
communication technologies that support patient mobility and 
reduce the need to regularly visit hospitals.
In this report, we have quantified the health benefits that mHealth 
solutions can provide across the four dimensions discussed above 
by using initial outputs from relevant studies and their validation 
by healthcare experts in relevant geographies. While we have 
referenced these inputs throughout the report, the methodology 
and assumptions for quantifying the impact have been detailed in 
the appendices.
2.2.1. Making healthcare systems efficient
Inefficient utilisation of information technology and 
electronic health records
The lack of an integrated health system and the insufficient 
use of electronic health records exposes the inefficiencies of 
Mexico’s and Brazil’s healthcare systems. The inefficiencies also 
hamper in-hospital administration through the lack of referrals 
across different levels of care and limited coordination amongst 
different departments within a hospital. Further, practitioners 
spend 25 to 30% of their time gathering and analysing medical 
and patient care data. Thus, the limited presence of electronic 
medical records also increases manual effort and administrative 
costs.
Healthcare IT solutions in these countries, today, do not provide 
many practitioners with enough information updates on the 
latest protocols and best practices internationally. Resulting 
lack of ready availability of information leads to uninformed 
clinical decisions such as prescription and procedural errors 
related to medication. The prescription of conflicting medicines 
or inappropriate dosage of medication can lead to adverse drug 
events (ADEs), prolonged hospitalisation and increase treatment 
costs
About 60% of 1.5 million4 ADE events are preventable and their care 
costs Brazil and Mexico a combined 208 million USD every year.
3. Source: WellDoc
4. Source: http://www.rightdiagnosis.com/a/adverse_reaction/stats-country.htm, http://www.ensp.unl.pt/dispositivos-de-apoio/cdi/cdi/sector-de-publicacoes/
revista/2010/pdf/volume-tematico-seguranca-do-doente/8-A%20magnitude%20financeira%20dos%20eventos%20adversos%20em%20hospitais%20no%20Brasil.
pdf, PwC analysis
5. Source: http://www.ensp.unl.pt/dispositivos-de-apoio/cdi/cdi/sector-de-publicacoes/revista/2010/pdf/volume-tematico-seguranca-do-doente/8-A%20
magnitude%20financeira%20dos%20eventos%20adversos%20em%20hospitais%20no%20Brasil.pdf, PwC analysis“Providing effective emergency response through 
well equipped ambulances, leveraging electronic 
medical records better, improving in-hospital 
coordination, and enhancing practitioner support 
in aspects such as treatment checklists and 
prescriptions are definite areas where mHealth 
can play a role.” 
Dr. Miguel Angel, Health Advisor PwC Mexico
“mHealth would help in improved data 
collection and analytics for hospitals.” 
Guadalupe Aparicio, IMSS
8 PwCEnhancing practitioner support
By 2017 , mHealth solutions could allow doctors to save 8.9 million 
days in Brazil and 5 million days in Mexico.
mHealth solutions could equip doctors with the most relevant 
information on their mobile devices and, thereby, save their 
time as they can access and analyse information on the move. 
By using such mHealth solutions, practitioners and medical staff 
could lower the time they spend to access and update medical 
information and medical records by 30%6. Since doctors spend 
30% of their time at work on accessing such information, 9% of 
their time could be saved. If each doctor in Brazil works for 250 
days per year, one could save 22.5 days. Taking into account the 
estimated number of doctors in Brazil and Mexico in 2017, 8.9 
million and 4.9 million working days for doctors could be saved 
in these countries respectively. Doctors could utilise this time 
saved to attend to additional patients or spend more time with 
critical patients, making care more efficient and effective.
6. Source: Stockholms läns landsting SwedenImproving emergency response
Accounting for the number of ambulances in Brazil and Mexico, 
90,000 lives in Brazil and 50,000 lives in Mexico could be saved in 
2017 by using mHealth to improve emergency response.
According to healthcare experts, 20 people die en route to 
hospitals per year, per ambulance in Mexico. If the paramedics 
in the ambulance can communicate with primary or emergency 
care, the number of deaths could be reduced. mHealth solutions 
can connect the ambulance with the hospital, allowing 
healthcare staff stationed at the hospital to monitor the patient 
being brought in and direct paramedics to administer basic 
emergency care en route. By doing so, we estimate that at least 
20% of these fatalities can be prevented, which would translate 
to 90,000 lives saved in Brazil and 50,000 lives saved in Mexico 
in 2017.By 2017 , mHealth could improve clinical decision making of 
healthcare providers and allow them to avoid 15% of preventable 
ADEs, saving 31 million USD in associated healthcare costs.
Doctors could also use mHealth solutions to access the 
latest medical research, and this could reduce the extent of 
prescription of conflicting drugs. While writing prescriptions, 
doctors could check for potential conflict amongst drugs using 
mHealth solutions and, thereby, avoid preventable adverse drug 
events (ADEs). By allowing doctors to validate their prescriptions 
real time, mHealth could help avoid 15% of such preventable 
ADEs, saving 22.5 million USD in associated costs in Brazil and 
another 8.7 million USD of the same in Mexico.0.4 
mn
0.2 
mn8.9 
mn
4.94 
mn
.49 
mn 
.27 
mn .09 
mn 
.05 
mn of total doctors’ time can be saved 
using mHealth
of fatalities that occur on route to 
hospital can be prevented by using 
mHealth solutions in ambulances 
to improve emergency responseDoctors
Fatalities in 
ambulancesDoctor days saved
Fatalities 
prevented9%
20%• Practitioners spend 30% of their  
time gathering and analysing  
patient records and information  
on medical practices
• 30% of this time could be saved  
using mHealth solutions that make  
this data available on mobile devicesIntegrating healthcare systems and enhancing access
mHealth solutions which enable easier creation of health records 
could in particular improve healthcare access to low income and 
rural people. Such solutions could enable healthcare providers 
to remotely create health records for population residing in areas 
that do not have a healthcare facility. Hence, more people can 
be registered with the universal healthcare systems. Data on a 
patient’s health could be collected in real time to enable quicker 
analysis, improved coordination and swifter medical response. 
This in turn could enable improved decision-making and enhance 
the effectiveness of care. Further, standardised health records 
could enable improved integration of care, facilitate appropriate 
referrals and enhance the utilisation of healthcare resources.Preventing ADEs
15%
of preventable ADE 
events can be avoided 
with the help of mHealthCost of preventable 
ADEs saved 
because of mHealthCost of preventable 
ADEs (mn USD)
2017 figures mentioned
Source: Rightdiagnosis, Enspl.unl, PwC analysis, Banco de Saude
2017 figures mentioned
Source: Stockholms läns landsting Sweden, WHO 2012, PwC analysis
2017 figures mentioned
Source: Banco de Saude, PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  9Unhealthy lifestyles and lack of awareness
At least 74 million8 people in Brazil and Mexico currently suffer 
from lifestyle disorders such as obesity, hypertension and smoking. 
Due to these lifestyle disorders, at least 19.79 million are at 
significant risk of developing chronic diseases such as T2DM, 
COPD and CVD. It is estimated that due to the growing risk of 
chronic diseases, the total number of patients suffering from these 
diseases in Brazil and Mexico can rise from at least 69 million in 
2012 to at least 76 million in 2017. Besides increasing the risk of 
chronic disease, unhealthy lifestyles can increase their severity by 
escalating the chances of developing complications, which could 
aggravate the healthcare and economic burden these diseases 
pose. Therefore, improving lifestyles to limit the incidence of these 
chronic diseases and reduce their severity is critical.Importance of wellness and prevention and challenges 
in encouraging it
Wellness measures can effectively help manage lifestyles which 
will not only overcome disorders such as obesity but also limit 
the risk of developing chronic diseases. However, educating 
patients on the importance of wellness and preventive care and 
motivating them to improve their lifestyles is challenging. The 
cultural acceptance of obesity in Mexico reflects in the fact that 
about 50% of their total population is either overweight or obese. 
Whilst in Brazil, around 50% of the men in urban centers of 
Brazil are overweight which demonstrates a lack of awareness 
on the risks that lifestyle disorders pose. Lack of awareness also 
extends to maternal and child care. Brazil and Mexico have 
made significant efforts to educate expecting mothers on ways to 
manage pregnancy and child birth better, but despite that 30%9 
of expecting mothers do not comply with the schedule for doctor 
visits, elevating the risk of pre-term and still births. 
Furthermore, the lack of healthcare resource poses a challenge 
to spreading health awareness in Brazil and Mexico. For 
example, in Brazil, the family healthcare teams deployed by 
SUS to promote good health and provide care cover only 50% 
of the population10. The limited healthcare resources need to be 
equipped with tools that can allow them to efficiently reach more 
people at a greater frequency in order to overcome the cultural 
barriers that limit health awareness, which could in turn make 
the awareness initiatives more effective.
Prevalence of lifestyle disorders in Brazil (in mn)
Prevalence of lifestyle disorders in Mexico (in mn)Hypertension Smoking Obesity
Hypertension Smoking Obesity7. Source: Axa Insurance Mexico
8. Source: PwC Analysis
9. Source: http://www.scielosp.org/pdf/bwho/v85n10/a10v8510.pdf
10. Source: www.thelancet.com, The Brazilian health system: history, advances, and 
challenges“While the diet habits of Mexicans is one of  
biggest health challenges, many people are not 
also aware of the consequences of their condition.” 
Dr. Angelica Arredondo, Hospital Ángeles  
del Pedregal 
“I believe that a major part of the problem is people 
being unaware of the importance of prevention 
measures and timely care. The lack of health 
promotion initiatives to educate pregnant women on 
the importance of visiting the doctor early exposes 
them to multiple avoidable risks.”
Dr. Arturo Ramírez, CENETEC2.2.2. Limiting disease incidence
Source: Ripsa (Brazil government), WHO, OECD 
2011, PubMed, PwC analysis 
10 PwCBrazil Mexico Benefits of wellness and prevention
T2DM COPD CVD T2DM COPD CVD
Still births Pre-term births Still births Pre-term birthsChronic disease patients (in mn)
Neonatal complications (‘000)Chronic disease patients (in mn) Risk reduction
Still birthsT2DM
COPD
CVD
Pre-term birthsBetter management
Neonatal complications (‘000)
Leveraging mHealth to enhance wellness and 
prevention
mHealth solutions could help public and private healthcare 
providers to connect more efficiently with patients, especially 
in rural areas, even if healthcare workers cannot reach out to 
them. Having established the connection, healthcare providers 
could work with service providers (such as telecom operators) to 
provide information that convinces patients to use educational 
mHealth services. Using these services, patients could receive 
general and personalised health tips through short message 
service (SMS), calls and emails, which make them more aware of 
the importance of healthy lifestyles and preventive measures. Even with increased awareness, the lack of self-motivation and 
adherence to wellness regimes may continue to inhibit patients 
from managing their lifestyles better. mHealth can play a key 
role in motivating patients to sustain lifestyle improvement 
initiatives through interactive solutions that encourage a game-
like attitude to attaining wellness goals. Patients can use these 
solutions to manage information about diet, exercise regimes and 
medication. The resulting reports and trends can be put on web-
based communities and patients can be rewarded for achieving 
their fitness objectives. Furthermore, doctors could use these 
reports and trends to customise healthcare and thereby increase 
its effectiveness. Hence, healthcare providers could use mHealth 
to empower patients to improve their lifestyles, avoid diseases 
and reduce their severity.
Condition Brazil Mexico
Disease type Prevalence mHealth users Users 
benefitted Prevalence mHealth users Users benefitted 
Population at risk Obesity 90.2 34 11.5 58.6 13.1 4.5
Smoking 17 6.4 0.5 10.1 2.3 0.2
Hypertension 33.4 12.6 3.8 21.5 4.8 1.4
Population with condition Obesity 25.2 9.5 3.2 28.5 6.4 2.2
Smoking 19.3 7.3 0.6 11.7 2.6 0.2
Hypertension 46.7 17.6 5.3 37.8 8.5 2.5Potential for population to use mHealth for lifestyle conditions
All figures are in mn units
2017 numbers have been reported
Numbers have been rounded
Source: Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, Medtronic, PwC analysis60% 70% 
30% 73% 
30% 50% 
64% 
10% 
Source: The World Bank, IDF, Atsjournals, Scielo, WHO, PubMed, Sbpt,OECD 2012, Medtronic, Silverchain,PubMed, Marchofdimes, PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  11Impact of mHealth enabled wellness and prevention
PwC estimates that, by 2017, more than 100 million patients 
suffering from or at the risk of developing lifestyle disorders and 
chronic diseases across Brazil and Mexico could use mHealth 
regularly for managing their lifestyles.
Of the 3 million Brazilians and 1.5 million Mexicans who manage 
the risk of developing chronic conditions by using mHealth 
solutions, 1.2 million Brazilians and at least 0.7 million Mexicans 
would no longer be at risk of developing chronic diseases due to 
significant improvement in their lifestyles. Some of the findings 
are as follows:
Condition Brazil Mexico 
Limiting the burden of diseases Risk 
reduction Incidence 
prevented Patients benefited Risk 
reduction Incidence 
prevented Patients 
benefited 
Lifestyle disorders Obesity 11.6 0.2 3.2 4.5 0.3 2.2
Smoking 0.5 NA* 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.2
Hypertension 3.8 0.4 5.3 1.4 0.2 2.5
Chronic diseases T2DM 0.8 0.1 3.5 0.53 0.06 1.7
COPD 0.2 0.07 7.1 0.07 0.02 1.7
CVD 0.2 0.02 1.9 0.09 0.006 0.6
 Prenatal  care NA NA 0.1 NA NA 0.07
*Since the prevalence of smoking is reducing in Brazil exact incidence prevented 
because of mHealth could not be estimated
All figures are in mn units
2017 numbers have been reported
Number have been rounded
Source: Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, Medtronic, PwC analysisBenefits of mHealth
11. Source: WHO, PwC Analysis• A total of 25.1 million Brazilians and 11.0 million Mexicans 
could successfully improve their lifestyle enough to reduce 
the risk of developing lifestyle disorders or overcome them.
• As a result, 0.6 million Brazilians and 0.6 million Mexicans 
could avoid developing lifestyle disorders  
in 2017.
• A total of three million Brazilians and 1.5 million Mexicans 
at risk of developing chronic conditions could use mHealth 
to improve their lifestyles and take preventive measures.• Of these, 0.2 million Brazilians and 0.1 million Mexicans 
could surely avoid developing chronic diseases in 2017.
• By 2017, 12.6 million chronic patients in Brazil and four 
million chronic patients in Mexico could manage their disease 
better by using mHealth to adopt healthier lifestyles and take 
preventive measures.
Additionally, of the 900,000 expecting mothers using mHealth 
for prevention across the two countries11, 160,000 women 
in Brazil and 70,000 women in Mexico would be able to 
significantly improve their prenatal condition, avoiding a 
potential 17,000 pre-term and still births in all. Condition Brazil Mexico
Disease type Prevalence mHealth users Users 
benefitted Prevalence mHealth users Users benefitted 
Population at risk T2DM 5.6 2.1 1.5 5.7 1.3 0.9
COPD 3 1.1 0.8 1.4 0.3 0.2
CVD 3.8 1.4 0.7 2.6 0.6 0.3
Population with condition T2DM 13.4 5 3.5 10.8 2.4 1.7
COPD 25.8 9.7 7.1 10.4 2.3 1.7
CVD 10.3 3.9 1.9 5.5 1.2 0.6
Prenatal  care 3.2 0.5 0.1 2.2 0.2 0.07
All figures are in mn units
2017 numbers have been reported
Source: Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, Medtronic, PwC analysisPotential for population to use mHealth for chronic diseases and prenatal care
12 PwC
Optimising use of healthcare resources
The combined impact of these wellness oriented measures on improved 
prevention and management of disease could relieve the burden on 
healthcare facilities by limiting incidence and severity of lifestyle 
disorders and chronic diseases. The following result will then be 
observed:
• A total of 15.4 billion USD could be saved in healthcare costs across 
Brazil and Mexico in the year 2017.
• Patients in Brazil and Mexico could avoid 88,000 and 32,700 
hospitalisations respectively.
The hospital beds made available and money saved could be  
used to treat additional patients, providing patients easier access to care.
Reduced hospitalisation in 2017 due to mHealth enabled wellness 
and prevention (‘000)
Life years saved in 2017 due to mHealth enabled wellness and 
prevention (‘000)
Cost savings across various disease conditions due to mHealth 
enabled wellness and prevention (in bn USD)Brazil Mexico
Brazil Mexico2.2.3. Expediting diagnosis to improve 
effectiveness of care
Reasons and impact of delayed diagnosis
The latent nature of chronic diseases and a lack of awareness 
of their causes and symptoms often means that would-
be patients do not proactively undergo preventive health 
checkups in advance. Most chronic diseases get diagnosed 
when complications appear12. On average, 40% of T2DM 
patients are not aware of their condition until seven to eight 
years after the disease has developed. Early diagnosis can 
help trigger timely interventions and, thereby, avoid such 
complications and reduce healthcare costs. 
In Brazil and Mexico, an insufficient presence of healthcare 
facilities or staff also delays diagnosis, particularly for the 
low income population residing in rural areas. In some rural 
areas in Mexico, people have to travel for around an hour for 
a simple blood test and reaching a hospital might take half a 
day due to the shortage of healthcare facilities13. Meanwhile, 
in Brazil, private players own most of the diagnostic facilities, 
which may not be affordable for low income groups.“Remote diagnosis can help in overcoming access related 
challenges. Mobile health can help improve the access 
to tertiary (specialised) care. It can also be used to get a 
secondary opinion.”
Luiz Tizatto, Unit Care Saude
“Early diagnosis of any disease provides early 
treatment, better surveillance and fewer 
complications, benefiting the patient.” 
Dr. Arturo Ramírez, CENETEC / IMSS
“The diagnosis in Mexico is not well organised as the 
facilities of treatment are not accessible for those in 
the interiors.”
Dr. Andrés Hernández, INER
Condition Disease type Brazil Mexico 
Population  
at risk T2DM 1.2 0.5
COPD 0.6 0.1
CVD 0.8 0.2
Obesity 1.2 0.3
Smoking 0.2 0.05
Hypertension 0.9 0.2
Population 
with condition T2DM 1 0.3
COPD 4.3 0.9
CVD 2 0.4
Prenatal  Care 0.08 0.0212.312.3Brazil
Mexico
3.1
All figures are in USD bn
2017 numbers have been reported
Source: Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, Medtronic, PwC analysis12. Source: IDF Atlas, 2012, PwC analysis
13. Source: http://www.pih.org/blog/rebuilding-a-primary-health-care-
system-in-rural-mexicoSource: Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, Medtronic, PwC analysis 
Total healthcare 
cost saving (in 
bn USD)
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  13Extending access to diagnosis and expediting it
Due to funding and people constraints, healthcare providers 
in Brazil and Mexico are forced to rely on innovative ways of 
detecting diseases that can help overcome these infrastructural 
gaps. mHealth solutions could address these gaps by encouraging 
self-assessment of symptoms and enabling remote diagnosis. For 
example, an mHealth solution supporting remote diagnosis for 
cardiac patients enables sharing of electrocardiograms (ECG) 
through mobile devices. Cardiac patients can share their results 
with their physicians, who can view the report on their mobile 
device and make faster, more informed diagnosis and treatment 
decisions. 
Population using mHealth enabled diagnosis in Brazil in 2017 
(‘000)
Population using mHealth enabled diagnosis in Mexico in 2017 
(‘000)Users of mHealth enabled diagnosis Users benefited
Users of mHealth enabled diagnosis Users benefitedIncreasing effectiveness and efficiency of care
PwC estimates that, by 2017, healthcare providers in Brazil and 
Mexico could be using mHealth to achieve the following:
• Provide 4.9 million people in Brazil and 1.6 million people in 
Mexico with access to diagnosis.
• Reach 1.5 million people in Brazil at risk of developing 
chronic diseases to diagnose their symptoms early, meaning 
that 680,000 could detect their chronic disease earlier.
• Reach out to 0.5 million people in Mexico at risk of 
developing chronic diseases to diagnose their symptoms 
early, meaning that 360,000 could detect their chronic 
disease earlier.Additionally, through interactive, algorithmic mHealth solutions, 
patients could check the existence of symptoms and determine 
the need of medical attention, which can help them initiate 
medical interventions earlier. Furthermore, by enabling patients 
to self assess symptoms, avoidable consultations could be 
omitted. CVDBenefits of early diagnosis
Average reduction 
of treatment cost
Source: Telemedicine benefits used as indicators for potential mobile 
health benefits, Source: NYY-NHS Telehealth study, California healthcare 
foundation T2DM COPD
30% 35% 35%
Treatment cost savings in 2017 (in mn USD)
Doctor days saved in 2017 (‘000)Brazil Mexico
Brazil Mexico
Source: PwC analysis
Such timely interventions could help patients avoid 
complications and reduce the need for hospitalisation, lowering 
treatment costs. Due to the reduced healthcare burden, doctors 
and paramedic staff could save on working days, which could be 
used to treat additional patients.
• In 2017, 454.8 million USD could be saved in healthcare costs 
due to early diagnosis of disease.
• An estimated 340,200 working days could be saved for 
doctors in these two countries.
• Assuming that only half of these days are used for additional 
patient visits and a doctor consults 18 patients per day, about 
3 million additional consultations could be conducted.
• If a patient visits a healthcare provider three times a year, one 
million additional patients could be treated without having to 
add a single extra doctor.
14 PwCA shift in healthcare needs from acute care to 
continuous care
Chronic diseases and medical conditions such as child birth, 
require continuous care or constant, real-time management. 
The treatment relies on patients and general practitioners, and 
the intervention of specialist doctors is required only when 
complications develop. When patients are involved in managing 
their own care and ensuring dietary and treatment compliance, 
this can be tiring and burdensome. Additionally, chronic  
patients often mistake temporary relief for significant 
improvement and discontinue treatment or take recourse to 
lower medication levels. 
These behaviours can lead to sub-optimal clinical outcomes 
and non-compliance. Complications can develop and hospital 
readmissions may be required, thereby creating a significant 
burden for healthcare systems. To avoid such situations, patients 
need to be continuously monitored in the hospital and outside 
it so that compliance levels are maintained and any medical 
interventions required can be made promptly.2.2.4. Enhancing quality of care
“Remote monitoring and compliance would help to make 
care more patient-centric. The patient need not come to 
the hospital. Sending the information about their health 
condition as relevant pathological readings would be 
sufficient for analysis by the doctor.”
Adrian Pacheco, CENETEC
“Remote monitoring would help in tracking 
vital signs in a continuous manner.”
Luiz Tizatto, Unit Care Saude
“Mobile health could be used to continuously provide 
details of the medical condition of a patient. This 
would help insurance companies in providing a more 
effective level of healthcare coverage.”
Hector Rode Haza, AXA Insurance
Note: *ALOS for a pre-term child, ALOS – Average length of stay
Source: Scielo, Folha.uol, Ncbi, CENETEC, Diabetic innovations, Incubi, 
PwC analysisThe demand for continuous care will continue to rise in Brazil 
and Mexico. By 2017, around 39.2 million of the 76 million 
chronic patients and expecting mothers will need monitoring. 
With a greater presence of specialists than general practitioners, 
the healthcare delivery systems in Brazil and Mexico have always 
been more suited for acute care than continuous care. To limit 
the imminent healthcare burden of chronic conditions, these 
healthcare systems need fast and cost effective ways to develop 
capabilities required to deliver continuous care.
Addressing the shift by enabling continuous care  
outside hospitals
Brazil and Mexico can use mHealth solutions that enable 
remote monitoring and promote treatment compliance to shift 
continuous care outside hospitals for 8.2 million patients from 
amongst the 39.2 million patients that require monitoring. These 
patients could avoid significant days of hospitalisation by using 
these solutions to stay connected with healthcare providers from 
their homes. 
These solutions can also help increase dietary and treatment 
compliance through reminders sent through SMS, calls and 
email reminders and motivate them to improve their lifestyle. 
By recording the patterns of various health parameters being 
monitored, these solutions can build a medical history of these 
patients. The healthcare providers can analyse these health 
patterns of patients being monitored by using cloud-based 
solutions to initiate timely medical interventions, thereby 
optimising and personalising their care. 
Since the patients would have their medical histories on their 
mobile devices, they can become more independent in managing 
their care, and feel empowered to sustain the effectiveness of 
their treatment even if they move locations or change doctors. Non-compliant patients in Brazil in 2017 (in mn)
Non-compliant patients in Mexico in 2017 (in mn)Patients with condition Non-compliant patients amongst them
Patients with condition Non-compliant patients amongst them
73%30-
50%12-
41%20-
30%
12 4 28* 8T2DM
Non-compliance rate
ALOS per yearCOPD CVD Prenatal carePrenatal care
Prenatal care
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  15
Population benefited by mHealth enabled Treatment and 
Monitoring (T&M) in Brazil (in mn)Population benefited by mHealth enabled Treatment and 
Monitoring (T&M) in Mexico (in mn)
Patients that needs 
monitoringPatients Monitored using mHealth Patients benefited Patients that needs 
monitoringPatients Monitored using mHealth Patients benefitedImproving clinical outcomes
mHealth-enabled remote monitoring can increase compliance 
amongst 4.9 million chronic patients and 5,600 pregnant women.
2017 data has been reported
Source: PwC analysis
16 PwCThe improved adherence and continuous remote treatment 
can help avoid severe complications associated with chronic 
diseases, thereby reducing their severity and lowering the need 
of hospitalisation. Some of the findings are as follows:
• By 2017, of the 8.2 million people in Brazil and Mexico being 
treated and monitored using mHealth, 4.9 million chronic 
patients could avoid 179,000 days of hospitalisation. Improved effectiveness of care in Mexico and Brazil
Condition Average duration of stay in a hospital  
in a year (in days) Estimates of mHealth-led reduction 
in hospital duration (%)Average reduction in days of stay  
in the hospital (in days) 
Diabetes 8 31% 2.48
COPD 12 31% 3.72
CVD 4 31% 1.24
Prenatal care* 28 92% 26
*Duration of stay mentioned is for a pre-term birth child
• Expectant mothers across these countries could prevent 
around 3,600 pre-term births by improving compliance and, 
hence, avoiding prenatal complications. As a result, they 
would have to stay 12,000 days fewer in hospitals. 
These improvements could allow healthcare systems in Brazil and 
Mexico to use the hospital beds made available to treat additional 
patients, making the healthcare delivery more efficient.427
74393
99168 3,622
12 630%
31%30%
31%29% 64%
100% 31%T2DM
T2DMCOPD
COPDCVD
CVDT&M improved using 
mHealthRisk reduction 
Hospitalisation 
preventedHospitalisation 
preventedChronic diseases Improved prenatal care
Mortalities reduced
Number of livesPre-term births
Count
Number of days (‘000) Number of days 
(‘000)
2017 data has been reported
Source: Medtronic, Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, CENETEC, PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  17Enhancing efficiency while limiting spend
mHealth enabled remote treatment and monitoring could reduce 
the treatment costs for chronic diseases by 35%.
2.3. Creating value using mHealth
Enabling healthcare systems to empower patients
Through the various benefits of mHealth, the healthcare systems 
in Brazil and Mexico could improve their readiness to deal with 
chronic conditions and become more capable in improving the 
quality of life of the patients. By connecting with patients outside 
hospitals, healthcare systems can help them take greater control 
of their lifestyles and diseases. Using mHealth to foster healthier 
lifestyles and make wellness and prevention more effective, the 
healthcare systems could benefit around 4.4 million patients at the 
risk of developing chronic diseases in 2017. In this manner, 276,000 
incidences of these diseases can be prevented in 2017. Cost savings in Brazil due to mHealth enabled T&M (in mn USD)
Cost savings in Mexico due to mHealth enabled T&M (in mn USD)
Doctor days saved due to mHealth enabled T&M (‘000)
Incidences of chronic disease prevented in Brazil and Mexico by 
2017 (in mn)
T2DM COPD CVDT2DM
COPD
CVDImproved outcomes, fewer hospitalisations and avoidance of 
associated outpatient doctor consultations can reduce the cost 
of care. In particular, the cost of care for chronic diseases can be 
reduced by 35% through the effective use of mHealth-enabled 
treatment and monitoring solutions. The findings are as follows:
• By 2017, the annual per capita cost of care for T2DM can be 
reduced by 486 USD for one million patients in Brazil and by 
337 USD for 0.6 million patients in Mexico.
• These 1.6 million T2DM patients could save 682 million USD 
in annual healthcare costs.
• The annual per capita cost of care for COPD can be reduced 
by 889 USD for two million patients in Brazil and by 743 USD 
330 for 0.8 million patients in Mexico.
• In 2017, the total annual cost of care for these 2.8 million 
patients could be lowered by 2.4 billion USD
• By 2017, the annual per capita cost of care for CVD can be 
reduced by 1,243 USD for 0.2 million patients in Brazil and by 
862 USD for 0.3 million patients in Mexico.
• These 0.5 million patients could save 507 million USD in 
annual care costs in 2017.
Due to the reduced complications and need for hospitalisation, 
doctors could prioritise patients to consult and reduce 
consultations, helping them save 158,000 working days across 
chronic conditions and 1,500 doctor days across child care in 
2017 across Brazil and Mexico. According to PwC estimates, 
around 0.5 million additional patients could be attended to 
without having to add any more doctors to the system, reducing 
the physician gap in these countries.Reduction 
in cost of 
treatment due 
to mHealth Before use of 
mHealth (in USD) % 
reduction# Savings after 
use of mHealth 
(in USD) 
Condition Brazil* Mexico* Brazil Mexico 
Diabetes 1,390 964 35% 486 337
COPD 2,540 2,124 35% 889 743
CVD 3,553 2,463^ 35% 1,243 862
*The latest available figures have been taken from secondary sources for chronic 
condition and have been inflation adjusted to reach at 2017 figures
^Figures estimated based on CVD treatment cost in Brazil
#Numbers arrived based on secondary research and primary interviews
Source: IDF, Mediagrpahic, Scielo, Scieosp, CENTEC, Medtronic, Hospital 
Ángeles del Pedregal, PwC analysis
2017 data has been reported
Source: Medtronic, Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, CENETEC, PwC analysis
2017 data has been reported
Source: Medtronic, Hospital Ángeles del Pedregal, CENETEC, PwC analysis
2017 data has been reported
Source: PwC analysisBrazil Mexico
Utilising resources better to limit spend and increase 
access
By 2017 , mHealth could lower the total annual per capita 
healthcare spend for patients benefitting from mHealth solutions by 
20% in Brazil and by 25% in Mexico
Healthcare systems can use mHealth to improve the quality 
and access to care by expediting diagnosis and enabling remote 
monitoring. The increased compliance levels and avoidance of 
disease can improve clinical outcomes and reduce the need for 
hospitalisation and visiting doctors, thereby reducing treatment 
costs. Some of the findings are as follows:
• Around 1.64 million days of hospitalisation could be 
prevented across Brazil and Mexico by 2017.
• 14.6 million days for doctors could be created through 
enhanced practitioner support.
• mHealth could allow doctors to treat 43 million additional 
patients in the time saved.By 2017, mHealth can make care more 
affordable by saving 102 USD Out of Pocket 
Expenditure (OPE) per regular mHealth 
user and 17.9 billion USD in care costs
Reduced burden on healthcare resources
Care costs saved in Brazil and Mexico by 2017 (in bn USD)Improved wellness and prevention
Early diagnosis
Remote treatment and monitoring
Stronger healthcare systemsWhile the healthcare systems will be able to optimise the 
allocation of resources due to the improved self-management 
and reduction in disease incidence, the empowered patients 
could create a further 30,000 years of healthy living. Accounting for the funds required to sustain the 200,000 jobs 
needed to support mHealth deployments by 2017, Brazil and 
Mexico will be able to save 17.9 billion USD in annual healthcare 
costs across around 64 million patients in Brazil and Mexico. Some 
of the findings are as follows:
• Public and private healthcare providers could use mHealth to 
save 14.1 billion USD in annual healthcare costs in Brazil and 
3.8 billion USD in Mexico.
• 45.7 million patients, which is equivalent to 27.9% of the adult 
population in Brazil, could benefit from mHealth in 2017.
• Similarly, 18.7 million patients, or 27.8% of the adult 
population in Mexico, could benefit from mHealth in 2017.
• The annual per capita healthcare costs could be lowered by 
20%, or 309 USD, in Brazil and 25%, or 204 USD, in Mexico.
• As a result, private spending could be reduced significantly. 
Every patient benefitting from mHealth in Brazil could avoid 
96 USD in annual out-of-pocket healthcare expenses in 2017. 
The comparable amount in Mexico would be 95 USD.
The resulting savings of USD 14.1 billion in Brazil and USD 
3.9 billion in Mexico could allow public and private players to 
accommodate the treatment for a further 4.26 million and 2.3 
million more patients in each respective country if only 15% of the 
doctor days were made available and used to treat  
additional patients.
14.1
3.812.3
3.10.34
0.112.59
1.020.02
0.011.1
0.4
2017 data reported
Source: PwC analysisAll figures are in bn USD
2017 data has been reported=
=+
++
++
+_
_Total healthcare
 cost savings
Total healthcare
 cost savingsWellness and 
prevention
Wellness and 
preventionDiagnosis
DiagnosisTreatment and 
monitoring
Treatment and 
monitoringSystem 
efficiencies
System 
efficienciesWorkforce to 
support mHealth
Workforce to 
support mHealth
MexicoMexico
BrazilBrazil
2017 data has been reported
Source: PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  19MexicoBrazilEven after accommodating the additional patients mentioned 
above, significant savings will still be available to sustain 
capital costs on mHealth and invest in new hospitals and 
community homes. The capacity created across these resources 
and savings available could equip the healthcare providers to 
extend the access to areas by reallocating human resources and 
infrastructure investments. The public healthcare systems could, 
therefore, accelerate the expansion of universal coverage and 
increase the equity of care. Over the longer term, the gradual 
lowering of costs could allow public and private payers to reduce 
insurance premiums, making healthcare more affordable.
Note: *Assuming only 15% of additional patients are to be treated out of money saved and 3 
consultations are needed per patient **Estimated per capita healthcare cost in 2017
2017 data has been reported
Source: PwC analysis
Note: *Assuming only 15% of additional patients are to be treated out of money saved and 
three consultations are needed per patient **Estimated per capita healthcare cost in 2017
2017 data has been reported
Source: PwC analysis
Added individual earnings and economic growth
Healthier patients could add to their earnings by extending 
their professional lives. By reducing the severity of their disease 
through the regular use of mHealth solutions, chronic patients 
could avoid premature retirement, which is otherwise a common 
occurrence amongst them. Similarly, patients at a significant 
risk of developing chronic disease could reduce occurrences 
of unpaid absenteeism. The increased productivity of these 
healthier employees could allow them to work longer, earn more 
and enhance their contribution to the economy. Some of the 
findings are as follows:
• In 2017, 97,000 chronic patients in Brazil and 144,000 chronic 
patients in Mexico could avoid premature retirement.
• Chronic patients that would have successfully avoided 
premature retirement up to 2017 could add 304 million work 
hours in Brazil and 2,603 million work hours in Mexico in Extending professional lives for citizens by adding work hours (in mn)
Additional GDP created in Brazil and Mexico in 2017 (in bn USD)
Wages
Taxes2017. The fact that Mexicans work till the age of about 69 years on 
average as compared to Brazilians, who retire at around 53 years of 
age, results in much higher addition of work hours in Mexico.
• In 2017, 1.2 million Brazilians and 0.7 million Mexicans who are 
at a high risk of developing chronic diseases could save 255 work 
hours and 225 work hours, respectively, in unpaid absenteeism.
• This would add 306 million annual work hours of paid work in 
Brazil and 158 million annual work hours in Mexico in 2017.
• The 610 million hours of work created in Brazil could add 3.1 
billion USD in disposable wages, on which the government could 
collect 1.5 billion USD in taxes and social security contributions. 
Hence, a further 4.6 billion USD could be added to the GDP.
• Similarly, the 2,761 million work house created in Mexico could 
add 6 billion USD in disposable wages, on which the government 
could collect 2.4 billion USD in taxes and social security 
contributions. As a result, a further 8.4 billion USD could be added 
to the Mexican GDP.
Thus, the positive influence of mHealth can spread beyond clinical 
benefits to create a material impact on the quality of lives and 
productivity levels of the patients, providing them significant 
economic benefits. The incremental GDP could make universal 
healthcare delivery more sustainable through the enhanced social 
security contributions from these patients.
2017 data has been reported
Source: Sciencedirect, University of Michigan, London School of Economics,Abep,Educationforh
ealth, PMC-US National Library of Medicine, Bmj, RAND Health Research, Ncbi, PwC analysis
2017 data has been reported
Source: Taxrates.com, PwC analysisBrazil Mexico97
1441,200
690Early 
retirements 
avoided 
(‘000)
Early 
retirements 
avoided 
(‘000)Reduction 
in unpaid 
absentees 
(‘000)Brazil
Mexico
Reduction 
in unpaid 
absentees 
(‘000)
Further 4.6 bn USD added to GDP Further 8.4 bn USD added to GDP 4.26 mn
Healthcare cost savings sustain around 2.3 mn additional patients in Mexico14.1 bn USD6.8 bn USD
7.3 bn USD1,593** USD
3.8 bn USD1.7 bn USD
2.1 bn USD763** USD
20 PwC
Overcoming the 
barriers to adoptionSection 03
Impact of limited adoption
The healthcare systems in Brazil and Mexico can realise 
significant benefits from mHealth to enhance the quality of care 
and address some of most pressing challenges these systems 
face due to the mismatch in resources and changing healthcare 
needs. Leveraging mHealth could impact patients positively by 
making their lives healthier and more productive. However, the 
broad socio-economic impact that mHealth can potentially create 
for the various beneficiaries including the healthcare systems by 
2017 depends on how many healthcare providers and patients 
adopt it and use it regularly.
Even though the healthcare regulators, policy makers and 
providers in Brazil and Mexico have been enthusiastic about 
the potential of mHealth, multiple barriers are still preventing 
mHealth solutions from being adopted formally and achieving 
scale. There is a significant possibility that, even if telecom 
penetration do not rise too significantly in these countries, 
only 10% of the patients and healthcare providers which can 
potentially adopt mHealth will do so by 2017. The potential that 
mHealth holds for Brazil and Mexico may be left significantly 
underutilised and its impact could remain localised.
Impact of limited adoption in Brazil“The lack of a performance-based 
healthcare system with low accountability 
of resource usage is a significant barrier. 
There is an urgent need for performance 
based funding of hospitals.” 
Dr Miguel Angel, Health Advisor  
PwC Mexico
“The lack of visibility on how hospital 
would earn in the new ecosystem 
resulting from mobile health creates a 
reluctance to adopt mHealth. Currently, 
there is no business model in place.” 
Adrian Pacheco, CENETEC“Definite regulations for 
mobile application need to be 
in place for Mexico.”
Guadalupe Aparicio, IMSS“Data security and interoperability with 
IT systems within and outside the hospital 
are areas of challenge for mHealth.” 
Dr. Miguel Angel, Health Advisor  
PwC Mexico
Potential - 100% adoption No action - 10% adoptionRegular mHealth users for treatment and monitoring by 2017 (in mn)
Hours of professional life created by 2017 (in mn)28.4 
mn
14.1 
bn
4.5 
bn3 
mn 
1.5 
bn 
0.5 
bn Additional patients 
treated in 2017
Total healthcare cost 
savings in 2017
Total GDP addition 
in 2017
Source: PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  21To fully harness the potential of mHealth, various stakeholders in 
the mHealth ecosystem need to collaborate and take initiatives to 
facilitate adoption.
The four key barriers to adoption
Multiple stakeholders involved in the delivery of healthcare, 
including public healthcare providers and private insurance 
companies, are already making efforts to deploy mHealth in 
Brazil and Mexico but mHealth has not yet reached scale. The 
overall socio-economic impact is promising but there are four 
sets of active barriers that are limiting its adoption:
• Regulatory:  There is a need for clear regulation in area of 
mHealth. The absence of regulation on some fundamental 
areas is slowing the adoption of mHealth. Some of the 
challenges created due to the absence of regulation are as 
follows:
 –Current regulation restricts the practice of medicine to 
facility-based protocols only. A doctor cannot diagnose, 
treat or prescribe outside a healthcare facility. Even a 
simple phone call from the doctor’s home to the patient is 
illegal, creating significant limitations for mHealth. 
 –Technological standards need to be established and 
interoperability promoted to enable scale and ease of use of 
innovation in mHealth product development.
 –Clarity needs to be provided on how medical device 
regulations apply to mHealth, providing a clear pathway 
for certification, while ensuring patient safety and trust.• Economic:  Currently, economic incentives that could 
facilitate the commercialisation of mHealth and efficient 
realisation of its benefits are not available. Some of the 
constraints are as follows:
 –The evidence base of mHealth benefits needs to be 
strengthened to easily convince healthcare providers and 
regulators of the value mHealth can create.
 –Performance and financial incentives that encourage 
healthcare providers to focus on transactions rather than 
quality of clinical outcomes prevent them from considering 
or evaluating technologies such as mHealth which can shift 
care outside of hospitals. 
 –Lack of insurance coverage or reimbursement mechanisms 
for the use of mHealth makes mHealth solutions and 
devices unaffordable for patients, especially in the low-
income groups. 
 –Limited healthcare budgets can restrict public investments 
in research and development of mHealth solutions, 
creating a burden for the private sector.
 –A lack of awareness of the benefits of mHealth amongst 
healthcare providers keeps them from encouraging 
patients to use mHealth solutions. 
 –Furthermore, this lack of awareness creates a reluctance 
to invest in addressing the change management needs 
associated with deployment of mHealth.Impact of limited adoption in Mexico
Regular mHealth users for treatment and monitoring by 2017 (in mn)
Hours of professional life created by 2017 (in mn)15.5 
mn
3.8 
bn
8.4 
bn1.7 
mn 
0.4 
bn 
0.9 
bn Additional patients 
treated in 2017
Total healthcare cost 
savings in 2017
Total GDP addition 
in 2017
Source: PwC analysisPotential - 100% adoption No action - 10% adoption
22 PwC• Structural:  Even though electronic medical records are 
being implemented in Brazil and Mexico, their fragmented 
healthcare systems limit the sharing of information and 
alignment of processes. Hospitals today do not share 
electronic medical records among their departments, much 
less between enterprises. Even at the most sophisticated 
hospitals, the emergency room and clinical records are 
not integrated into the hospital records. Since there is 
no incentive for hospitals to exchange data, government 
intervention and policy setting will be required. This poses a 
risk of localisation of mHealth systems and can keep mHealth 
from scaling up. We have seen good indications from MOH’s 
DATASUS regarding the agency plans for health information 
exchanges which is encouraging, but these must be combined 
with regulatory policies to encourage commitment from 
hospitals to embrace the data exchange requirements. 
Furthermore, absence of performance-based incentives for 
public healthcare providers limits their competitiveness, 
which could restrict their need to leverage mHealth in 
making their resources more efficient.• Technological:  Even though telecom networks exist 
and sufficient mobile coverage is present, the lack of 
interoperability of solutions and devices and common 
data standards prevent mHealth solutions from achieving 
scale. However, these barriers are relatively easy to address 
provided there is a sufficient support of healthcare regulators 
and the relevant telecommunications regulators to  
promote adoption of mHealth solutions amongst healthcare 
solution providers.
Call for immediate action
Many mHealth benefits are system oriented and may be 
visible over the longer term. To ensure that these benefits can 
be attained in the longer term, the four main areas such as 
regulatory, economic, structural and technological, need to be 
acted upon immediately.
The regulators and payers need to design frameworks and 
incentives that can encourage adoption now in order to maximise 
benefits of mHealth as soon as stronger evidence is established.
Source: PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  23Actions needed to drive adoption
Policy and regulatory decisions that formalise the mHealth 
ecosystem can help address regulatory concerns and 
overcome structural barriers. Regulators and payers can also 
devise economic incentives and technology standards that can 
encourage the adoption and use of mHealth.
“There is a need to involve doctors in early stages 
of product development. Products categories 
which could help to simplify the activities of 
the doctor like payment claims, information 
processing could find more traction with doctors.”  
Hector Rode Haza, AXA Insurance
“Mobile health would be creating a new 
workflow for the doctors which would 
increase their work pressure. There is 
a need to understand the current way 
doctors work and use mobile health in 
a way which supplements their existing 
work flow.” 
Luiz Tizatto, Unit Care Saude“Innovative pricing models such as a 
low base price plus service based pricing 
mechanism could be used for mHealth.”
Act. José Antonio Barreiro, General 
de Salud
“There is a need to create a supporting 
regulatory structure. For example, 
there is a need to make the electronic 
records have a legal bearing.” 
Hector Rode Haza, AXA Insurance
“Mobile health would be creating a new 
workflow for the doctors which would 
increase their work pressure. There is a 
need to understand the current way doctors 
work and use mobile health in a way which 
supplements their existing work flow.”
Adrian Pacheco, CENETEC
Source: PwC analysis
24 PwC
Create a facilitative regulatory environment
The policy makers and regulators can play a primary role in 
establishing policies and regulations that can help formalise the 
mHealth ecosystem through the following steps:
• Create policies that integrate mHealth with the nationwide 
healthcare strategy, which can help align the development of 
mHealth with the priorities of the healthcare sector.
• Harmonise the gap between regulations around delivery of 
healthcare services and mobile health services, e.g. modify 
the healthcare regulations to facilitate the use of technology 
that enables administration of care outside hospitals.
• Establish clear medical device certification for mHealth to 
ensure accountability of stakeholders.
• Establish technology and data standards to ensure 
development and deployment of interoperable solutions, 
which could enable mHealth solutions to achieve scale.
• Encourage coordination amongst healthcare providers by 
mandating them to use interoperable solutions.
Establish beneficial compensation and funding 
mechanisms
Payers, with the support of regulators, can create compensation 
mechanisms that ensure that gains from mHealth get fairly 
distributed across the stakeholders. Establishing funding 
mechanisms that ensure direct mHealth investments as per needs 
of the healthcare systems can help ensure efficient usage of these 
investments. To attain these objectives, the payers could adopt 
the following:
• Create compensation mechanisms for patients and healthcare 
providers that could cover the cost of mHealth solutions for 
the patients and reimburse the healthcare providers.
• Create favourable pricing models of mHealth for the low 
income population to ensure that they get equitable access to 
mHealth services.
• Reward healthcare providers for attaining positive health 
outcomes and efficiency improvements by using mHealth 
solutions, promoting healthy competition and encouraging 
mHealth adoption.
• Establish public private partnerships and collaborate with 
NGOs and global health organisations to fund mHealth 
solutions that address the most important needs of the 
healthcare systems
Enable the ecosystem to adopt and use mHealth 
The regulators and payers need to work together to promote 
the awareness of mHealth benefits and support the efficient 
development of mHealth solutions by taking steps that help in 
the following:
• Continue building the evidence base of mHealth to clearly 
establish the value that mHealth can create.
• Drive clinical leadership to establish pioneers of mHealth 
implementation such that change management needs are 
lowered progressively and a set of best practices for mHealth 
implementation can be established.• Changing the culture of professionals in their use of 
technology and connectivity is needed to enable adoption  
of mHealth.
• Encourage clinical engagement earlier in the development  
of mHealth solutions to work towards the refinement of  
exact needs for these solutions.
• Incentivise healthcare providers to promote the awareness  
of mHealth benefits amongst patients and associated 
healthcare staff.
• Establish education systems across all healthcare 
professionals to train them on how to use mHealth solutions.
• Centralise the procurement of mHealth solutions to ensure 
their standardization, interoperability and scalability.
• Ensure the availability of solutions in local languages.
These recommended steps are relatively straightforward 
when reviewed individually. However, collaborative action 
amongst various stakeholders is necessary to ensure that these 
recommendations are implemented efficiently and consistently 
to coincide with each other. Clearly, policy makers, regulators 
and payers have a significant role to play in guiding the 
formalisation of the mHealth ecosystem through these steps. 
Hence, an urgency on their part in conceiving the frameworks 
and policies and implementing them is critical to ensure that the 
potential that mHealth holds is maximised and the benefits are 
not pushed out to far into the horizon.
Socio-economic impact of mHealth  25Appendix A: AssumptionsAppendices
Areas of 
assumptionAssumptions
Health 
conditionsChronic conditions:  T2DM, CVD and COPD are the conditions considered for assessment.
Lifestyle conditions:  Obesity, smoking and hypertension have been analysed as these lead to chronic conditions.
Prenatal care:  Although Brazil and Mexico have achieved more than 90% of immunisation coverage for children under five 
years, these countries still have high rates of neonatal mortality. Hence, prenatal care, still birth and pre-term birth have been 
studied for Brazil and Mexico.
Criteria for 
disease 
selectionChronic and lifestyle conditions have been selected based on factors such as prevalence, Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY)
loss and mortality contribution in Brazil and Mexico.
Maternal care was selected for assessment because Brazil and Mexico still have high rates of neonatal mortality.
Our study omitted certain diseases such as cancer and asthma because our healthcare experts opined that mHealth will not be
able to create any significant clinical improvement in the short term.
Areas of 
mHealth 
intervention The following two broad areas have been considered for impact of mHealth interventions:
•	Solutions across patient pathways:  Areas considered include wellness, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and  
remote monitoring.
•	Solutions to strengthen healthcare systems:  Areas considered include are healthcare practitioner support, healthcare 
administration and emergency response.
Relevant 
populationWellness and prevention:  Population at risk of developing conditions and population with conditions being assessed.
Diagnosis:  Population at risk who do not have access to diagnosis and population with conditions who are not diagnosed.
Treatment and monitoring:  Population with conditions who are non-compliant to treatment.
The above population has been further segmented according to rural and urban areas. The impact of mHealth will vary across 
these two user bases.
Adoption 
factorsTelecom penetration rate is used to arrive at the population that can be reached by mHealth. 
Adoption rate reflects the percentage of the relevant population who will adopt such mHealth solutions. Two scenarios have 
been considered here which are as follows:
•	Adoption rate would be 10% in 2017 if no action is taken to encourage it.
•	Potential adoption rate in 2017 is taken to be 100%, assuming that full adoption will be realised once the mHealth 
framework, policies and business models will be put in place.
Adoption rates have been arrived at through primary interviews with healthcare experts.
Repeat usage rate has been accounted for, based on the assumption that the mHealth solutions will take 6 to 12 months in 
order to have a meaningful healthcare impact. It has been validated by healthcare experts in relevant geographies.
The repeat usage rate has been considered differently for urban and rural areas.
mHealth 
benefitsThe following areas have been used as representative to quantify mHealth related benefits:
•	Pilot mHealth projects and their benefits.
•	Tele-health projects and their benefits.
•	e-Health project and their benefits.
Final numbers obtained from these findings were further validated and modulated through primary interviews in the
relevant geographies.
Aggregation of population:  Benefitted population has been calculated across wellness, prevention, diagnosis, treatment 
compliance and remote monitoring categories and overall population has been aggregated.
Lifestyle conditions:  Total population suffering with just lifestyle conditions and not chronic diseases has been calculated by 
adding obese, smokers and hypertensive population together.
Chronic conditions:  For patients suffering from chronic conditions or at risk of developing them, the overlap for various lifestyle 
disorders has been accounted for.
Age group 
for health 
conditionsLifestyle conditions:  Relevant age groups have been considered for each disease. For example, 15 plus years for smoking, 
hypertension and obesity.
Chronic conditions:  The age group of 20 to 79 years has been considered for diabetes, whereas for COPD and CVD, 15 years 
and above have been considered.
Prenatal care:  No particular age group has been considered. Reported rate of child birth has been used to arrive at the 
population of expecting mothers who will need prenatal care.
Treatment cost Historical treatment costs have been inflation adjusted in order to arrive at current costs where required.
26 PwCProductivity 
loss Due to absenteeism, productivity loss has been computed over unpaid sick days beyond entitled sick leaves.
Due to early retirement, productivity loss has been computed on the years by which a chronic patient retires early.
Daily wages and tax rates of each country have been taken into account to calculate productivity loss and loss on government
taxes due to absenteeism and early retirement.
Hospitalisation 
daysPercentage of hospitalisation and ALOS have been captured from secondary sources. This is further validated by primary 
interviews from healthcare experts in relevant geographies
Job creation Jobs will be created for paramedics, trainers and technical support staff, with each mHealth deployment in hospitals.
Adverse drug 
eventsPreventable adverse drug events cause a major cost burden on the healthcare system. This can be reduced by effective 
mHealth deployments across hospitals.
Appendix B: 
Methodology
Understanding and quantifying region-specific 
healthcare challenges
To arrive at the socio-economic impact of mHealth, we started 
with the view that for mHealth to be effective, it has to address 
the challenges and needs of Brazil and Mexico. We gathered 
data points on relevant challenges such as disease incidence, 
prevalence, disease- related mortalities and the number of 
people at risk. These healthcare challenges and data points were 
further validated by primary interviews with healthcare experts 
in the regions.
Further to identify the socio-economic impact of the disease 
we looked into parameters like treatment costs of each disease 
in each region, and the cost burden of early retirement and 
absenteeism caused by those diseases. We also looked into 
disease-specific hospitalisation frequency and hospitalisation 
days in order to quantify the socio-economic challenge.
Identifying the scope of mHealth and capturing  
benefit data 
The relevance of mHealth was established against these 
challenges. We identified two broad areas of interventions
such as solutions across the patient pathway and the healthcare 
system strengthening. These two broad categories were further 
Approach to quantify socio-economic benefits
Quantify major healthcare 
challenges in the countryIdentify the scope of 
mHealthAnalyse the potential 
benefits of mHealthTranslate 
healthcare 
benefits to socio-
economic benefitsScenario analysis
Areas covered •	Data analysis to profile 
healthcare challenges 
of the country
•	Translation of these 
challenges to socio-
economic challenges•	Identify relevant 
areas for mHealth 
interventions on the 
basis of healthcare 
challenges of each 
country
•	Prioritisation of these 
areas based on the 
goals of multiple 
players in the mHealth 
ecosystem of the 
country•	Analyse case 
studies and pilot 
projects in order to 
arrive at estimates 
of benefits
•	Conduct primary 
interviews to verify 
the estimates•	Convert these 
healthcare 
benefits 
to socio-
economic 
benefits 
through 
econometric 
modeling•	Parameters 
varied to 
under analyse 
socio-economic 
impact of 
various 
scenarios 
of mHealth 
adoption
Source of 
data•	Primary interviews
•	Secondary sources•	PwC analysis
•	Primary interviews•	Primary interviews
•	Secondary sources•	PwC analysis •	PwC analysissub-divided into six areas of intervention– solutions across the
patient pathways (wellness and prevention, diagnosis, treatment 
and monitoring) and healthcare systems (emergency response, 
healthcare practitioner support and healthcare systems 
strengthening).
The following key steps were taken to arrive at the quantified 
healthcare benefits of mHealth:
• A relevant population base was selected for each condition 
being assessed.
• The smartphone and basic user phone penetration was 
applied to this population to arrive at the total potential users 
of mHealth solutions.
• Since mHealth solutions benefit only if used regularly, the 
percentage of total potential users who would regularly use 
such mHealth applications was determined to arrive at the 
relevant number of mHealth users.
• Further, the percentage of regular mHealth users that could 
benefit was computed for each solution type and condition.
• The potential benefits estimated for each solution type and 
condition were then applied to arrive at the overall benefit.
Each area and type of benefits of mHealth were estimated based 
on existing studies, pilots and expert opinion. 
Arriving at socio-economic estimates
In order to analyse the benefits across Brazil and Mexico, an 
economic model was developed to quantify healthcare challenge 
and mHealth induced socio-economic benefit in these countries.
About PwC  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with 
more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please 
see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
  facebook.com/PwCIndia 
  twitter.com/PwC_IN
 linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
 youtube.com/pwc
Shashank Tripathi
India Leader - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9819678900
Email: shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.com
Mohammad Chowdhury
India Leader - Telecom
Phone:+91 9167665544
Email: mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.com
Dr. Rana Mehta
India Leader - Healthcare
Phone:+91 9910511577
Email: rana.mehta@in.pwc.comContacts
David Wijeratne
Associate Director - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9818966775
Email: david.wijeratne@in.pwc.com
Lokesh Khanna
Principal Consultant - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9711031020
Email: lokesh.khanna@in.pwc.com
Acknowledgments
We would like to take this opportunity to thank all the team members for 
their contribution to the creation and finalisation of this report:
Ankur Bharti
Dr. Amit Talwar
Abhishek Kakar
Siddartha Prasad
Rohit Shankar
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any 
decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK508 - May 2013 mHealth_Brazil and Mexico.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
