Title: pwc_enterprise-mobility-putting-people-first
Date Published: 2013-10-25 08:07:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_enterprise-mobility-putting-people-first.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Enterprise mobility
Putting people first
www.pwc.in
Aegis Graham Bell Awards 2013, 25 October 2013, Delhi  
Introduction  p4/Enterprise mobility ecosystem  p7/Trends  p12/Challenges  p20/
Experiences  p21/The road ahead p24

We are perhaps living in the best times in terms of connectivity when out of the total seven billion, six 
billion people are connected to each other through mobile phones. However, the full potential of this power is yet to be explored.
As the work force is becoming increasingly mobile and the consumers no longer like to wait for what they 
want, enterprises are gearing up to harness this power for a competitive advantage. They have realized 
the perks of ‘putting people first’ and they are now not only providing mobile phones to their employees, 
they are even and making apps for their customers. Enterprise mobility is gaining considerable momentum with the empowerment of both the employees and customers resulting in significant economic gain.
We at Aegis, first experienced the power of mobile phones in a well connected world when we launched 
mMBA (which is MBA on tablets) in 2011. It took the learning from the classrooms to the palm of our students which were mainly working professionals in telecom companies. ‘Wherever-whenever’ and ‘my 
time-my place’ are our two concepts that helped them balance between work and the learning process. 
They are now able to access their study material on their tablets while travelling which results in an effective utilisation of their time. Within three years we reached from New Mumbai to other Indian cities and countries like  Africa, Maldives, the Middle East,  Afghanistan, Indonesia and Philippine. The 
mobility of our platform eliminated the location barrier for the faculty members and they were able to 
teach their students from different parts of the world from the living rooms. This further helped Aegis in addressing the challenges of a growing cost, unavailability of faculty, scale, relevance and effectiveness.
This year, we saw a good number of amazing innovations in the enterprise mobility area presented at 
Aegis Graham Bell Awards by Indian as well international companies. These innovations have the power to revolutionise business and bring the customer to centre stage.
We believe that this joint report of Aegis and PwC will help the Indian enterprises to embrace ‘Enterprise 
Mobility’.
Bhupesh Daheria
Founder, Aegis Graham Bell AwardFounder, mUniversity CEO, Aegis School of Business 
The game of the future is about employee efficiency, 
effectiveness and quality—how can my employees react faster, have improved and quicker access to information,  and can demonstrate high level of commitments to their clients wherever they happen to be; all through the power  
of a computing device in their hands.
- Sivarama Krishnan, Executive Director, PwC India
Dear friend, 
Not far from where my office is in Gurgaon, are the India headquarters of the world’s leading FMCG 
company. In a casual meeting with the CEO, I asked him what made his company’s businesses in all  geographies  and across every product category, such a huge success.“We really put people first”,he said, and laid special emphasis on the ‘really’. 
I wonder how many business leaders can make such an emphatic claim on behalf of their organisations. 
Fortunately, today, more than ever before, this is so much easier. A deeper understanding of the 
employees, partners and clients, an improved technology and well established processes together enable 
the organisations to become people advocates. With respect to technology, organisations today are embracing enterprise mobility in more ways than one to ‘really put people first’. In a recent survey by PwC on emerging technologies and their impact, an overwhelming majority of C-suites polled cited enterprise mobility as the most important game changer for their businesses. Through this report, PwC 
has defined the broad contours of enterprise mobility in India: the ecosystem, the emerging trends, 
challenges and the overall opportunity for businesses. I wish to remind you that the future of smarter businesses will continue to rest with the smart people; our employees, partners and clients. While the enterprise mobility movement has been evolving around technology, processes, users etc., it is only now 
that organisations are beginning to adopt an integrated approach towards using enterprise mobility as 
a tool to enhance employee productivity and satisfaction.
While technology has been the main stay for the gradual adoption of enterprise mobility solutions 
by organisations in the country, today they are significantly taking a more people centric view to architecting their enterprise mobility ecosystem. This is a pleasant surprise and implies that we will witness hyper growth in enterprise mobility as it gets dimensioned on need and requirements rather  than capabilities.
Aptly, this report focuses on the key areas that will inform decision making in the adoption and 
use of enterprise mobility solutions in the years to come. It provides a comprehensive view on how 
organisations can leverage enterprise mobility for creating value. 
Sivarama Krishnan,
Executive Director, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd.
Introduction
As we publish this report, the Indian 
economy is going through one of its most difficult times. The downfall of the rupee, 
challenges with the land reforms bill 
slowing FDI, shortage of FII money in India’s secondary markets and the changes to the rule books are all responsible for the worsening economic 
sentiment in the country. 
Understandably, corporate India is 
responding very aggressively albeit not 
always wisely to these developments. Most companies are actively working at taking out costs to improve margins in 
what is clearly a very challenging market 
condition. Measures announced by India Inc. include saving on travel and administrative expenses, retrenchment of non performing or under-performing 
employees, outsourcing the non-core 
activities, selling off the non-core businesses and operational improvements resulting in efficiency gains, reduction in wastage and a better utilisation of assets.
These bottom line focused measures 
clearly demonstrate that the market 
sentiment for a recovery is low and 
distant. In the wake of this, organisations are trying to find solutions that will enable improved performance at lower investments. One important area that several leading organisations are focussing on is enterprise mobility. 
Enterprise mobility, wherein, the 
organisation enables employees, partners and customers to access and work on organisational technology platforms and 
where enablers through any device- 
tablets, laptops (personal) and smart-phones, seamlessly through a secure virtual environment are gaining ground. 
Technology and market forces are the two 
important facets of enterprise mobility. Technology is thrusting for ubiquitous 
computing and consumerisation of 
technology while the market forces are focussed on exploration and adoption of new business models and being more agile. Technology with key drivers like 
hyper competition, globalisation, digitised 
processes and a scarcity of the ‘right skills’ is making a compelling case for enterprise mobility.

The interplay of market and industry forces is driving companies to consider new 
business models 
Source: PwC
Enterprise mobility is not a new thing. In 
fact, it took its very first fledgling steps way back in the 1980s with the roll-out of 
the first company-wide telephonic 
networks. Over the years, the concept has become more encompassing. Three generations of enterprise mobility have been identified. In the 1980s-1990s 
enterprise mobility came to be identified 
with voice communication through land line phones in conjunction with the use of facsimiles and telegraphs. In the 
1990s-2000s enterprise mobility moved to 
the mobile platform through paging systems followed by early stage of the mobile phones. Application level enterprise mobility is, however, a fairly 
recent phenomenon. It started in 2007 
when the improvements in security and technology platforms enabled access to corporate applications.Market Forces Industry Forces
Mobile
Computin g
Ubiquitous
Computin g
Consumerisatio n
of technology Price WarsNew Business
Models
Pressure to be
more agileCloud
Computin g
Intelligent
Devices
Social
TechnologiesMaturation/
Convergence
Global
Focus
Delivery 
Excellence

Source: PwC analysis
Interestingly, in its third generation, 
enterprise mobility has matured to become hardware independent and the 
focus has come to the front end user 
interfacing applications. This compares favourably to the focus on back end and middle-ware technological capabilities in earlier generations and is in sync with the 
times. 
Application centricity is resulting in agility 
driving greater adoption of enterprise 
mobility solutions. Security, which is a major issue impeding adoption, has come to the centre stage. There is a plethora of 
solutions to provide peace of mind to the 
users, corporate and individuals alike. Significantly, the third generation of enterprise mobility solutions are successfully generating confidence with 
the leaders, resulting in quicker adoption.
In this report, we delve on the myriad 
components, the challenges and the 
benefits of enterprise mobility. The report aims to engage and educate our readers on the significance of this movement, its ramifications for organisational culture  
as well as opportunities available to be harnessed on its account.Gene ration 1st 2nd 3rd
Technology 
Development 
Enterprise 
Demand 
Vendor 
Response 
FeaturesLandline phones arrive
Introduction to
digital cellula rBetter security against  
eavesdropping and fraud  
better performance
Subscriber-based ID  
and authenticatio nMobile messaging capability emerges on cellular phones 
Better security and  
access to corporate  
messaging server-based  
PIM applications 
Introduced enterprise wireless e-mail and  
calendaring (1099)  
•End-to-end data  
encryption 
•Remote wipe 
•EAS policy support Application-centric phones arrive (2007)  
Better security and  
access to corporate  
applications 
Upgraded security 
(2009-10)  
Security model derived  
from the features of the 
second generation, but on 
all major OSes (2011-12)  Generations of enterprise mobility
Understanding the 
enterprise mobility ecosystem
An ecosystem is defined as ‘everything 
that exists in a particular environment’. In case of enterprise mobility it would consist 
of everything that is required to make it 
work. There are seven key components in the enterprise mobility ecosystem. These include: •	Users:  The organisations, employees, 
vendors, partners and customers are the key stakeholders in any enterprise mobility solution. The following are the three key drivers for this 
component: 
 –Business need:  Organisations 
need to provide access to enterprise 
systems to the internal and external stakeholders to ensure 
enhanced responsiveness, higher 
availability, improved performance and overall satisfaction. 
 –Personal need:  Individual 
stakeholders need access to the 
enterprise systems both from the 
perspective of improved access and round the clock availability. Enterprise mobility is an important tool for enhancing individual 
engagement and satisfaction 
within the enterprise.
 –Experience: Experience is an 
important factor that impacts the 
users of enterprise mobility 
solutions. Organisations have to create a seamless experience based on quality interfaces, low latencies and empowered access to data from within the enterprise.
•	Security: The safety and 
confidentiality of data available within 
and through enterprise mobility 
solutions is of paramount importance. Following are the three key drivers of this component: 
 –Authentication:  ‘How do I ensure 
that the right person is accessing my systems and data therein?’ is a question that most technology officers within companies struggle to 
answer. The ‘who’, ‘what’, ‘where’, 
‘when’ and ‘how’ of ensuring fast, accurate and regular authentication is paramount for securing enterprise mobility solutions. 
 –Encryption: ‘How do I control the 
accuracy, confidentiality and overall security of my data during transmission?’ is an important question that organisations are 
besieged with. Multiple technologies 
for encryption are being tested and deployed to ensure greater stability in securing enterprise mobility 
solutions.
 –Security policy: ‘How do I ensure 
that a culture of security is imbued by all my stakeholders?’ Organisations want employees, 
vendors, partners and customers to 
work with them for helping them realise a security oriented culture. The key to this is defining and publishing security policies and 
monitoring adherence to these.  
Institutionalisation of security policies governing device use, content, access rights and data privacy are helping organisations 
enhance sensitivity towards best 
practices in security for both  
internal and external stake holders.
•	Devices:  Devices are an integral part 
of enterprise mobility solutions. 
These include all types of devices 
through which enterprise 
applications and systems are accessible to both internal and external stakeholders. For instance, desktops, laptops, tablets and 
smartphones. The selection, 
procurement, certification, configuration, provisioning and management of devices critical for 
the success of enterprise mobility 
architecture within an organisation. Several enterprises are adopting a more flexible approach to devices through the ‘bring your own device’ 
(BYOD) policies, wherein enterprises 
are comfortable with providing stakeholders access to enterprise systems through individually owned devices.
•	Governance:  Smart enterprises are 
establishing robust governance mechanisms encompassing strategy, best practices and policies for managing the enterprise mobility 
ecosystem. A clearly articulated strategy establishing the need, the vision 
and the tactical road map for achieving goals for enterprise mobility is critical to 
steer the organisation through unforeseen 
circumstances. Governance model ensures that the boundary conditions for the solutions are well articulated and respected. It also ensures that best 
practices are adopted, adapted and 
implemented to custom fit the enterprise. Most importantly, governance models mandate that policies are established to 
ensure that the organisations’ goals and 
expectations from such solutions are clearly scoped out and articulated. 
•	Engineering:  For a robust and 
responsive enterprise mobility 
architecture, it is critical to engineer 
suitable technology platforms (hardware) for the hosting, access, support and disaster recovery at the back end. Organisations need to focus on 
establishing capabilities for hardware 
configuration, network management, hardware management and platform support and disaster recovery to create the enabling infrastructure for enterprise 
mobility solutions. 

Engineering enterprise mobility
Source: CBDI Forum, PwCSecurity 
User Identity Employee Guest Customer
Mobi le Applic ation
Native Web Hybrid
Application Profile
Smart phone Tablet Specialized
Device Capabilities
Device Profile
Connection Point VoIP Streaming
Mobi le Computing Infrastructure
Mobile Mobile Rendering 
Enterprise Enterprise EnterpriseMobi le Device 
Manage ment
Content Manage ment
Fault Manage ment
Device Lifecycle Manage ment 
Configuration Manage ment 
Asset Manage ment
Location Manage ment
MEAP
MDM Server
System Manage mentApplication Store
Enterprise Application Stor eMobi le Application 
Manage ment
Application Provision
License Management
Application Development  
Application Deployment  
Enterprise Applications
HR ERP CRM BI Etc…Device Identity 
Mobile Security 
Manage ment
Enterprise Security 
Manage mentUsers (Actors)
Mobi le Applic ation
Networ k Infrastructure
Enterprise Infrastructure

The key elements of enterprise mobility 
architecture include: 
Mobile device management (MDM): 
MDM helps in device control and focuses on management of the device as a physical 
asset and the application of some policy 
for its connectivity and function. By controlling and protecting the data and the configuration settings for all mobile devices in the network, MDM can reduce 
support costs and business risks. 
Some MDM solutions are: AirWatch, 
BoxTone, Citrix, Fiberlink, Good 
Technology, MobileIron, SAP or Sybase, Zenprise
Mobile application management 
(MAM): MAM is managing the lifecycle 
of applications from the deployment to the 
updation and ultimately retirement, while 
keeping them up-to-date and accessible. This provides application provisioning through a private app store, the management of updates to those 
applications, and any controls to recall or 
restrict access to applications from mobile devices. 
Some MAM solutions are: App47, 
AppCentral, Apperian, Citrix, Verivo Software 
Network access control (NAC): NAC 
provides a set of rules for profiling endpoint devices in order to provide 
network access. NAC plays a significant 
role in a mobile by orchestrating the policies for network rights across users’ various devices, whether personal or company owned, and provides access to 
the autonomous devices in future based 
on the static device characteristics, like MAC address. Some NAC solutions are: Barracuda, 
Cisco, Juniper Systems management solutions 
(SMSs):  SMSs exist in most IT 
departments as a way to manage 
company-owned systems, such as servers, 
desktops, and laptops. These tools provide visibility into the active systems and facilitate patching and updating of those systems. While the latter tasks have not 
expanded to the mobiles in large 
proportions, these systems may represent the ‘golden standard’ of visibility for which an organisation should strive for its mobile 
devices. 
Some  SMSs are: BMC, Citrix, Tivoli or IBM, Microsoft, Symantec or Altiris 
•	Applications: Applications are at the 
centre of the enterprise solutions. CIOs 
and business managers with organisations adopting enterprise 
mobility today are faced with decisions 
around designing, developing and managing applications in a manner that they are available for enterprise platforms for today and tomorrow.  For 
commercial off the shelf applications, 
organisations have to consider the issues around license management as well as the corporate and non-corporate applications (for defining 
content, features and accessibility). For 
custom application development, organisations have to consider development tools and platforms as 
well as performance requirements and 
quality control of applications. 
Top applications for enterprise mobility
The enterprise mobility ecosystemSource: CIO Association India (CAI), PwC analysis•	Support: Another key component of 
the enterprise mobility ecosystem is 
the support services.  Users of the 
solution require support for 
applications and hardware. Organisations, for company owned devices, provide repair and replacement support. For individually 
owned devices, most organisations 
provide application level support.
Source: PwC analysisApplication 
SupportReplacement
Repair
DevelopmentHardware
SupportSupport
Performance
QACustom Apps ApplicationEnterprise 
Application Store
Purchase d Apps
Non corporate Apps
Corporate Apps
License
Manage mentSecurity
Authentication
Security PolicyEncryption
User
Experience
Personal 
NeedBusiness 
NeedDevice
Provisioning SelectionManage ment
ConfigurationBYOD
CertificationDevice PurchaseProcurement
Consumer Device
Corporate 
LiableRuggedizedTelecommData
Asset Manage mentPlatform 
Manage ment
StrategyVoice PolicyBest 
Practices
GovernanceNetwork 
Manage ment
Disaster 
RecoveryPlatform
SupportPlatform
Configuration
Engineering
Enterprise Mobility+Calendar
& Cont acts
Instant
Messaging
Customer
relationship 
Management
Enterprise
telephon y
ERPEmail
Sales Force
Automation
Business
Intelligence
Document
Management
Human
Resources
Various components of the enterprise mobility ecosystem are coming together in interesting ways to give rise to certain 
distinct trends. These trends are of 
interest to the  users, organisations, device manufacturers, service providers, regulators etc. Trends and their interplay in the coming days will ensure exciting 
times for the adoption of enterprise 
mobility in the country.
Trends
Organisations in India are joining 
the BYOD movement
BYOD is a growing mobility trend which 
allows employees to ‘bring their own devices’ for work and to access company 
information. BYOD makes it easier for 
employees to work outside the office and ensures the workers are adequately equipped to do their role. The following are two key drivers for the growth in 
BYOD:  Rising smartphone penetration: India ranks fifth among the top countries 
for smartphone users with an estimated 67 million subscribers in 2013, behind China, the US, Japan and Brazil. Annual growth of smartphone subscribers in India 
stands at 52%, which is expected to be the 
second fastest after Taiwan at 60%, taking into account the top 30 smartphone markets in the world. With the increasing penetration of smart phones in the 
country, there has been a significant rise 
in the adoption of enterprise mobility. This upward growth trend in BYOD adoption is expected to become stronger in the 
coming years.
Smartphone penetration
Source: Informa, KPCB, PwC AnalysisSmartphones subscribers (in millions) 2013
Smartphones subscribers Y/Y growth (in %age)
Level of company’s support for BYODGrowing	data	traffic:	India's mobile 
data traffic is expected to grow four times faster than the fixed IP traffic between 2013 
and 2017. In 2012, non-PC accounted for 
10% of the IP traffic in India. By 2017 the non-PC share will grow to 53%. It is estimated that portable devices, such as smartphones and tablets will contribute 
40% to the IP traffic in 2017 up from 3% in 
2012. With the launch of high mobile data speed services like 4G LTE, mobile data traffic is expected to grow further. By 2017, 
4G users would be up from 1% to 9%, and 3G up from 35% to 59%. 2G users, 
however, will go down from 64% to 32%.It is estimated that India has the highest 
percentage (69%) of employees who use a 
mobile device for work. Apart from the US, India has the highest number of connected devices per knowledge worker 2.8 in 2012, and 3.2 in 2013. Interestingly, 
30% of the Indian companies support all 
employee-owned devices, second only to the US.
BYOD is here to stay. Experts opine that about 50% of organisations in India will adopt BYOD as a strategy by 2017. 
Economics is also driving rapid BYOD 
adoption in the country. For organisations, 
the main reason for investing in BYOD 
policies and supporting infrastructure is to save money. Smaller companies with smaller budgets see this as an opportunity to lessen the equipment expenses, and 
reallocate their hardware budget to 
improve software and IT systems. Its adoption also revolves around increasing productivity by providing flexibility. It enables remote working or teleworking, 
by ensuring that staff has the relevant 
equipment for their roles.The increasing adoption of BYOD is significant in terms of policies, processes, ownership and jurisdiction ramifications 
for organisations and individuals alike. 
Most importantly, organisations are trying to devise ways and means to meet the security challenges posed by BYOD. The following can be possible solutions to 
these challenges: 
• Creating boundaries around open 
content
• Establishing a comprehensive access 
policy
• Securing devices on a regular basis 
• Undertaking regular audits of devices 
and data sets 
• Establishing requisite hardware, 
software and application led security controls
Source: PwC analysis
Growth in the enterprise mobility 
applications is driving greater adoption and richer experience
Enterprises are providing applications that 
enable seamless access to enterprise 
systems for employees, users and vendors 
or partners. Some of these are in the form of endorsed platforms, for instance, financial institutions endorsing atom technologies’  ‘atom mobile banking’ for 
enabling fund transfers. Such endorsed 
platforms reduce the effort and time required for design, development, installation, support and ongoing 
maintenance and provides for super 
specialization. Such platforms, in most cases, are more economical for enterprises. These softwares as service platforms have grown to provide solutions 
for clients, often enabling and leading 
transformational capabilities for clients in their specialization niches.
Businesses are also taking to commercial 
off the shelf applications for efficiencies and productivity enhancement as part of their enterprise mobility strategy. Take 
Dropbox, for instance, which is a well 
recognised name in cloud computing. This app helps users sync their files easily and seamlessly with any device with any operating system. This addresses the 
problem of making documents accessible 
at all times with ease and across devices. 
Several clients also prefer custom built 
enterprise mobility applications to uniquely support their employees and clients. For instance, the electronic payment capabilities that all leading telecom operators have deployed in the country which provide employees, 
intermediaries and customers with the 
facility to make bill payments through any GPRS enabled device. These applications talk directly with the internal pre-paid and post-paid billing platforms. Similarly, 
leading travel portals have custom built 
applications for customers to book travel tickets through their mobile devices.
Interestingly, several ‘mobile first’ 
enterprise applications have been launched. These apps are built exclusively 
for the mobile platform first and are later 
ported to non-mobility platforms.
Indian companies have moved on from 
traditional emailing and social networking for enterprise mobility and are today looking at applications and platforms like ERP, CRM, SCM, sales force 
automation, unified communication and 
billing.
Enterprise mobility application universe
Common smart handheld services 
Device-
dependent  
applications Competitive applications Employee horizontal applications Mass-consumption applications HTML5 only : Content applications 
(news, books, video...) airline boarding 
passes, cloud storage
HTML5 only : Common corporate  
applications such as ERR, CRM, MRP 
cloud-based office productivity tool s
HTML5 +: Mobile payments with  
device-based native SDKs authentication 
navigation, visual analytics The big question facing many CIO’s today is how to develop enterprise mobile apps for all the key mobile platforms.  Most 
CIOs are today trying to deploy a hybrid 
approach combining HTML 5 with one native deployment i.e. the main platform for which the application was initially conceptualised. As HTML 5 is a browser-
based technology, it is dependent on the 
web browsers and actually sniffs the type of phone accessing it. It automatically renders the screen size and optimises the 
user experience for the end-user based on 
their handset type. Resultantly, there is no need to build multiple versions coded to specific operating systems requirements and hence saves a massive amount of cost 
to app development for businesses.
Source: PwC analysis
Sales,  marketing, customer service 
and IT are the early adoptors of enterprise mobility solutions 
within organisations. The HR, 
supply	chain	management	and	field 	
service departments are also keen to follow a similar pattern.
Not surprisingly, the push for enterprise 
mobility solutions has come from teams that needed to respond faster to situations. 
Sales and marketing teams and customer 
service teams,  which perform client or market facing roles are the first ones to benefit from the convenience and quick responsiveness available with enterprise mobility solutions on their hand helds. Organisations report that these teams 
report a higher degree of satisfaction, 
increased productivity and significantly better performance in meeting on ground targets. IT is another department that has made a push for investments in enterprise 
mobility solutions. This helps this critical 
support function to effectively respond to complaint calls and to monitor systems and networks in real time. Organisations report 
improved responsiveness and lower down 
times on account of enterprise mobility solutions deployed for the IT teams.

Departments making investments in enterprise mobility solutions
Departments deploying enterprise mobility solutionsInterestingly, other departments have also 
seen the benefits of deploying enterprise mobility solutions and increasingly 
investing in applications that help 
universalise their back end systems. For instance, the human resources teams in several organisations are using enterprise mobility solutions in the following areas: 
• Employee leave management 
• Interviewing assistance
• Learning assistance and tools
• Time sheet management• Travel expense reporting and expense 
receipt capturing
• Manager portal 
• Employee real time look up 
These empower employees to complete 
HR related work flows and requirements 
whenever and wherever  any of their devices require them. These also help to accelerate the workflows through improved alerting and notification as well 
as a faster approval processes.
Finance IT Manufacturing 
•	Payments approval 
•	Real spend monitoring
•	Travel expense reporting 
and approval
•	Compliance management•	IT change approval
•	IT  incident management
•	User experience management
•	System monitoring •	EHS safety issues
•	Quality issues
•	Operations incidence management
•	Resource management 
Supply chain Sales 
•	PO approval
•	Sanctioned vendor listing
•	Transport status notification
•	Price discovery•	Material availability
•	Customer and contacts
•	Order status monitoring
•	Sales order notification
•	CRM cycle: lead to order management 65%
45%42%
35%
22%
18% 17%
12%10%8%
SalesM arketing Customer
Service IT HR ProcurementSCM OperationsFinanceOthers
Source: PwC analysis
Adoption of controls for enterprise mobilitySecurity has emerged as the most 
important concern for enterprise mobility solution deployers and 
providers alike
What is the real cost of a lost smart phone 
enabled with enterprise mobility? 
Security is undeniably the biggest challenge and the largest opportunity in enterprise mobility today. According to a recent PwC survey called State of 
Information Security- India, 2014, Indian 
businesses are starting to move beyond perimeter fencing of mobile devices and internal systems accessed through these 
devices. Security for enterprise mobility 
solutions has widened to having a mobility strategy (more than 50% organisations polled), deploying mobile device management software and strong 
authentication on devices.Interestingly, Indian companies are 
faring better than their global peers in the adoption of controls for mobility.
Enterprises in India are increasingly 
adopting biometric technologies to 
strengthen safety strategies. Today's 
smart phones are able to capture the voice, face and even hand geometry biometrics without resorting to add-on scanners or other peripherals. They are 
being planned to be used for security 
clearance in organisations, as they can capture enough physical information to authorise personnel.
Source: PwC analysis
Organisations in India are more proactive 
in deploying security for customer facing mobile applications. In the same survey 
mentioned earlier, more than 40% 
respondents claimed that they have initiated secure mobile application development and established strong authentication on devices. A significant 
number also claimed having transport 
encryption for data security.
Alarmingly, as organisations in India focus 
on security for enterprise mobility solutions, only 21% organisations currently have security policies governing 
the use of mobile devices and an even 
lesser percentage (19%) have policies governing the use of consumer devices on the enterprise network. 
Following are key technologies for 
securing enterprise networks that will find greater adoption in the coming years: 
• Centralised user data store
• Behavioural profiling and monitoring
• Encryption of smart phones
• Intrusion detection tools
• Vulnerability scanning tools
• Asset management tools
• Security information and event 
management technologies  Security controls for customer facing applications in India
47%
42%
37%
36%
34%
32%
29%
26%
25%
19% Isolation of memo ry in the mobile appDedicated intrusion and prevention technologiesMemory is securely cleared when app is closedPenetration testingEncryption of sensitive data in the mobile appA unique set of ne twork and firewall policiesBasic authenticationTransport encryptionStrong authenticationSecure mobile app development
Source: PwC analysis
Enterprise mobility is about 
collaboration and problem solving.
Employees are already using devices for 
problem solving. Instead of waiting for answers employees are using the mobile 
devices to quickly and effectively reach 
out for advice to solve tricky problems. For instance, in an automobile service station, line workers take photos of difficult repair jobs and share with co-workers to find the 
right solution.
Although, today, enterprises are in dire 
need of help with the information 
overload, they’ll soon be able to use the collaboration paradox to their advantage. mHealth Ecosystem
Monitoring
Healthcare Surveillance
Healthcare AdministrationHealthcare Practitioner Support Solutions across Patient Pathway 
Healthcare Systems StrengtheningPreven tionDiagnosisWellness
Treatment
Emergency ResponseMobile Service Op erators
Content Providers
Device Manufacturers
Healthcare Service 
ProvidersPlayers Solution s
Individuals
Government
Healthcare Providers
Banks are extending their collaboration with the customers through mWallet. Customers are able to make payments, 
order cheque books, retrieve account 
information, create fixed deposits and invest in instruments through applications on their phones.  Similarly, retailers are collaborating with their customers 
through mCommerce and schools with 
their students through mEducation.
Interestingly, mHealth is extending 
enterprise mobility into the realm of the physician and patient relationship. Physicians are today accessing patient 
records and answering queries with data 
backed insights from records on the go. Patients are getting reminders regarding medication and vaccination from physicians which is in turn ensuring 
improved outcomes of the treatment 
regimen. Devices are emerging as a key platform for social technologies. If these could be suitably channelled through appropriate 
enterprise applications, organisations will 
be able to reap immense benefits. The following features may prove to be of considerable value Integration with business critical applications
• Curation and content organisation
• IT management functionality to 
support governance and compliance
• Social analysis
Farmers in the country now use their 
phones to digitally monitor the operation of irrigation pumps. Many of them regularly access everything from crop 
prices to weather forecast on their phones. 
In the developing world, mobile-services providers are becoming the de facto colleges, delivering education through  
the phone.
Source: PwC analysis
Several challenges confront organisations 
wanting to espouse comprehensive enterprise mobility. 
Computing the ROI of the 
mobility strategy: Calculating ROI 
from enterprise mobility solutions is 
challenging. The impact of mobility solutions is far-reaching and too many variables influence a multitude of outcomes for the organisation. One 
view is to analyse the performance 
of the organisation on financial and operational parameters before and after the roll-out of enterprise-wide mobility 
strategy. Another view is to ascribe direct 
benefits to enterprise mobility strategy to calculate ROI. Nevertheless, there is no single accurate methodology to measure impact and thus the ROI for enterprise 
mobility enablement.
Integration of mobility into 
overall business and IT strategy: 
An enterprise-wide mobility strategy has far-reaching people, process and technology ramifications for the organisation. This implies that a mobility 
strategy needs to be aligned with the IT 
and business strategy of the company. The key challenge is in embedding mobility as a component of technology, people and process work streams of the organisation’s business strategy. 
Skill sets for managing a mobile 
workforce: Several organisations are challenged with skill sets, especially 
within the IT department. These skills 
are required to manage the slew of hardware, software, applications and devices that an enterprise mobility solution encompasses. Most importantly, 
these skills needed to cater to varied 
devices, mobile operating systems, and application environments are in short supply and difficult for non-IT firms to attract and retain (especially in India).
Platform and device 
standardisation: Enterprises are 
pressed with the dilemma of choosing 
a single or few mobile platforms in order to enable enterprise mobility architecture versus supporting enterprise mobility on all device types. Tied to 
this is the question of the ownership of 
devices. Organisations prefer to provide access on company-owned devices but realise that this is often expensive and 
works contrary to the bring your own 
device (BYOD) spirit.Asset management: Key assets used in 
enterprise mobility need to be traceable, 
manageable and governed from induction to retirement. Enterprises need to embed mobility asset management into their asset lifecycle management 
processes. This is significant in terms of 
the threat they can pose if not attended, accounted and safeguarded. 
Jurisdiction and ownership: What 
should be the policies and penalties (in case of breach) for data storage, 
download and upload for personal 
devices aligned to enterprise mobility? Who owns the data residing on personal devices--the enterprise or the individual? What are the company’s rights over 
devices and data not its own? Questions 
such as these need to be settled through debate and discussion in order to ensure more widespread adoption of enterprise mobility solutions. There are other 
specific areas that challenge enterprise 
mobility adoption. For instance, in the medical profession, who can access and see a patient’s medical history and profile from their handhelds has 
spawned a debate encompassing issues 
around data transmission and storage, data privacy, etc.Enterprise mobility 
challenges 
Policies: Organisations complain that 
there are no best practices or precedents contextualised to India that govern 
the enterprise mobility landscape. 
Enterprises overlook the fact that each enterprise will have to work to establish its own boundary conditions for enterprise mobility. Each organisation 
will have to create its own reference 
model to policies, capabilities, roles and responsibilities and maturity model streams and phases.
Experiences
the IT team enthused in an era of rampant 
attrition and mounting work pressure. Yet, it was adamant in not denying this freedom 
of mobility and having dissatisfied-users. 
The company aimed at freeing IT team 
resources from managing non-strategic assets and instead having them focus 
on high business value initiatives. The 
company identified the kind of devices users were adopting, for example PCs, smartphones, tablets, etc. It started to identify the platforms users were adopting, 
for example iOS, Android, Windows, 
etc. It prioritised critical applications that require support such as email, conferencing, etc. The company as a 
solution came up with a BYOD policy. It 
gave users the mobility they were asking for. But the support for different devices brought about standardisation as well as a security challenge for the company. The 
company therefore adopted virtual desktop 
infrastructure (VDI). This created two partitions--personal and enterprise--on the BYOD devices. It alienated personal data 
from enterprise data, thereby quenching 
enterprise data security apprehensions. The VDI adoption, though expensive, had good ROI and management buy-in as it substituted the need for company-
owned devices whose refresh cycle was 
due and involved large capex. To free up IT resources, the company outsourced the support process to a partner with the necessary capability and expertise. 
The company soon started to reap benefits 
from its BYOD policy. Its employees experienced more job satisfaction. Their productivity shot up by more than 40%. The security of enterprise data was 
ensured. And the company made huge 
savings on account of reduced refresh cycle capital expenditure.
Enterprise mobility in the farm
A large Indian company is known for its healthcare products. Chemical X, a key component of its product offering, 
is derived from marigold flowers. The 
company’s fortunes depend on the tiny petals of the flower. The company wanted to have a controlled end-to-end process 
from farming and harvesting the flower to 
making the final product. It has partnered with farmers to produce and with agents to report the production. 
The flower needs a well monitored 
cultivation and harvesting cycle. The 
company experienced that the farmers were increasingly missing the harvesting cycle and the agents, the inspection cycle. 
The agents were using excel sheets to enter 
inspection results. The entire data-feeding process had a significant turnaround time and wasn’t real-time. Also, the sheets were not helping the company’s horticulture 
scientists to provide suggestions and 
guidance on the produce. The produce was erratic and wasn’t meeting delivery requirements.
The company decided to introduce a farm 
management system (FMS) application. The application was hosted online in order to provide easy access to its partners--the agents. The system would automatically 
send SMS reminders to the agents to avoid 
inspection delays. Virtual desktop infrastructure 
(VDI) creating a win-all paradigm
A large multinational company has a well 
diversified portfolio which spans several economic sectors. It has an employee 
base of more than 75,000 in over 25 
countries worldwide. The company has been a consistent investor in latest technology in order to drive forward 
and backward integration in its business 
and on leveraging synergies between its businesses. It focusses on in-house research and innovation to remain a low-cost manufacturer with high quality 
products and innovative customer 
offerings.
With the ever evolving industry 
environment, the company started to 
experience a new wave of employee 
expectations-- a more flexible working environment, the option to use their home PC or bring their own PC, use of smartphones and tablets,  access to social 
networking and cloud apps. They wanted to 
work, the way they wanted to work. 
This led to more and more personal 
devices entering the enterprise ecosystem. 
Every such device was identified to be 
potentially hostile. As in any organisation, the security of the enterprise data was critical to functioning. This mobility freedom was starting to incur more 
monitoring effort from the IT team. The 
company was facing a challenge in keeping 
As online access to the system from the 
field wasn’t flexible, data retrieval time from agents was still below acceptable 
levels. The online access was leading 
to agents entering data into the system without doing physical inspection. The challenge was to prevent them from this 
malpractice, yet provide them with an easy 
interface to feed data.
The company provided smartphones to 
farmers and agents. These phones enabled farmers and agents to feed real-time 
data into the application. Geo-tagging 
prevented agents from entering data when they were absent from the farms. Farmers provided pictures of the produce using 
the smartphone and received suggestions 
as well as weather forecasts from the scientists.
The company soon started to realise the 
benefits these efforts and investments. 
Real-time data was reaching the company 
system. Information flow was transparent and speedy. Scientists were able to better advise on cultivation practices. Chemical 
X produce increased drastically. Raw 
material costs as a result reduced and the company was able to deliver a better quality product.
Placing power with patients
A major and renowned government hospital  is considered to be a benchmark for establishing healthcare standards in 
the industry for years. 
With a large base of doctors, the 
management decided to dynamically allocate time-slots to its in-house doctors. 
These dynamic time-slots created a 
challenge for its customers--to know the time-slot when their concerned doctor is available. The healthcare industry increasingly faces a challenge of 
appointment desk staff timing. Customers 
have to book their appointment during a particular time of the day. Also, with the huge influx of clients and limited 
appointment slots, there has been a 
scarcity of available appointments. This has been further escalated with appointment staff offering preference to clients. Therefore, the management was concerned that its customers were increasingly finding it difficult to book 
appointments. 
The healthcare industry is increasingly 
facing the challenge to improve its offerings. Its customers are increasingly looking for mobile options for completing 
non-critical tasks such as the physical 
collection of reports, etc. The hospital wanted to provide flexibility to its customers as well as bring about a more 
transparent appointment system. 
The hospital introduced a new online 
hospital service system. Customers could search for the doctor they wanted to book, check for his or her time-slot, check his 
or her availability and get a confirmed 
appointment. The system also allowed customers to download their reports, or access them online at a later time.   
The hospital realised that customers 
were finding it more convenient to book an appointment online without the requirement or intervention of a third person. The system also allowed the 
reduction of hospital staff thus leading to 
reduced operating expenditure. 
Education for all
Economic, social and technological forces continue to change our increasingly interconnected world. The adoption of 
new technologies, the rapid obsolescence 
of knowledge, the need for just-in-time learning and the search for cost-effective ways to meet the learning needs of a global 
workforce have redefined the processes 
that underlie the design, development and delivery of training and education.
Estimates suggest that as much as 40% 
of in person training costs actually go to 
meet travel and lodging expenditures.
In response, mUniversity is enabling end 
to end education delivery and providing a unique  marketplace for learners, 
educators, enterprises and governments.  
mUniversity provides solution for various stakeholder challenges in the education ecosystem.mUniversity: Solutions for all 
stakeholders
Enterprises
•	Total solution to manage Learning and 
Development 
•	Address  challenges around growing cost, trainers, scale, relevance and effectiveness
•	No Capex better ROI
•	Adds courses and lets employees pay as they use
•	Delivers interactive training to employees, partners and customers 
•	Freedom from Black Box of LMS
Government
•	Eradicates the birth penalty
•	Better & affordable education for all
•	Equal opportunity for every one
•	Scalable vocational training infrastructure 
•	Build a strong knowledge society 
•	Improve employability 
•	Reduce the digital divide
Educators
•	Buy, sell  and deliver courses online 
•	No capex,  better ROI
•	Enroll candidates for online & on campus 
programs 
•	Class to web, end to end solutions for education delivery management. 
•	Use the same mUniversity platform for oncampus LMS needs
Learners 
•	Access top educators’ courses
•	Affordable education, anytime-anywhere 
for Students & Professionals
•	One place for applying for on-campus & online programs 
•	Your budget and your program 
•	Earn Certificates and Diplomas
•	Add wings to your career, stay up-to-date in your field
•	Industry relevent courses
 
India has over 3300 business schools and 
several amongst  these  are stand alone business schools, which  are no longer  
viable and sustainable from a  business 
model perspective. Consequently an 
increasing number of business schools are closing. Poor quality of product, over 
supply, poor industry and academia 
linkage, poor quality of teaching faculty, narrow vision of management are some of the reasons for this collapse. 
Business schools are struggling to attract 
and retain good academicians because 
of non availability of  good quality faculty pool, high cost of full time faculty and faculties unwillingness to move to 
disadvantaged locations. Alongwith this, 
the cost of education delivery is growing. This  is passed on to students  making it unaffordable for many.
Given this scenario,  the mUniversity 
platform was launched by Aegis School of 
Business and Telecom.Advantages of Aegis Business School’s mUniversity Model- 
•	Better faculty from 
around the world
•	Total solution to manage Learning and 
Development 
•	Addressed challenges: 
Growing cost, trainers, Scale, Relevance and Effectiveness
•	No Capex better ROI
•	Buy, sell and deliver courses online here
•	Delivering courses to 
candidates worldwide
•	Enhanced revenue
mUniversityContent 
Authoring
LMS  
PlatformDevice  
SamsungBandwidth 
Tikona & 
RComFaculty and 
StudentmUniversity ecosystem
The road ahead
To ensure that enterprise mobility is a 
success in India, the following are pre-requisites. 
Making people mobility ready
Organisations will need to evolve an entire support ecosystem around enterprise mobility. This necessarily includes 
resources in the technology department 
adept at the design, development, deployment and maintenance of devices and applications. With the proliferation 
of devices, the mobility support team will 
need talent adept on multiple technology platforms, in case organisations choose to support multiple device types. 
Educating internal users is also critical 
to the success of any enterprise mobility programme. Adherence to the first principles of design and development 
and exhaustive user acceptance testing 
will ensure that to an extent the intended user community is comfortable with these applications. Training will still play an important role, more so in the case of commercial off-the-shelf applications 
made available to internal users. The 
partner ecosystem will also need to be trained in effectively using applications made available to them. This will 
often involve getting the troops in the 
trenches to be trained to use what may be considered relatively sophisticated applications. For instance, a leading telecom provider has made available an asset barcode scanning application to its physical 
verification partner for count-taking of 
active elements at various tower sites in the country. The application is made available on handphones of field staff. 
The staff has been trained to use the 
application meaningfully in order to enable two-way communication on the veracity of data on assets on the ground.
Enterprise mobility will also require 
a change in the mind-set at the top. 
To a CIO, mobility at this stage can be frustrating. It may seem a contradiction 
to lower costs and improve security and 
controls while simultaneously encouraging the innovation mobility can provide. Patience and a balanced control approach will be the main attributes of the IT 
leader of mobility. Timing may differ, but 
eventually mobility will play a significant part of any enterprise information services—both internally to the organisation and externally to customers. 
Some people see the opportunity to 
create a speciality position, that of chief information mobility officer.New governance model for greater 
acceptability
Enterprise mobility has roots in the 
personal domain. Organisations need to be cognisant of the fact that unlike other 
domains of professional life, the extent 
to which they can influence and impact the relationship between the user and his or her device will always be limited. 
Organisations have to understand that 
enterprise mobility calls for a cultural shift in organisation-wide governance. 
Mobility governance is a tricky 
business. Excessive controls can stifle 
creativity and the free spirit that are the 
underpinning hallmarks of the enterprise mobility movement. On the other hand, being overtly relaxed could result in 
mayhem and far-reaching undesirable 
consequences for organisations. Organisations need to strike a balance with policies and processes that nudge and guide users to desirable behaviours 
without being overtly restrictive. 
Mobility also encompasses the spheres 
of the customer and the partners. These stakeholders might be even less receptive 
to any controls which are in dissonance 
with their expectation of enterprise mobility. Hence, any governance model will have to be nuanced enough for greater acceptability from all constituents of the 
ecosystem. 
For instance, today it is difficult to impose 
a traditional approach on enterprise mobility users. Users consider the device 
their property and not a corporate asset 
unless it is specifically provided for by the organisation. Hence, a centralised approach to security wherein one solution fits all might not work with users in case of 
enterprise mobility.
Enterprise mobility has to be the 
business of business
The iPhone changed it all. For the first 
time, employees the world over had a gadget that provided use of ease 
and experience never seen before. 
Organisations were forced to port and make available applications that employees could access on the go on 
their iPhones. For the very first time, the 
choice of technology and its consequent ramifications was not steered through the offices of the chief information officer or the chief technology officer but by the 
employees on the field and the office or 
factory floor. 
To start, many business leaders still 
need to come to terms with the fact that 
their employees are also consumers. As 
a result of that disconnect, many—if not most—employees today are ahead of their employers when it comes to using mobile devices. Gone are the days when 
workers passively accepted whatever IT 
handed them. For the last few years, IT has been struggling to figure out how to let employees use their own phones for work 
as well as play—without compromising 
the security or integrity of established business processes. When employees with smartphones can download apps that help them do their jobs better than the tools 
provided by IT, it‘s all the more important 
to ensure that mobile strategy gets executed with employees in mind.
Enterprise mobility continues to be an 
individual user led phenomenon. The 
organisation is but an enabler, reacting to the opportunity of gaining greater productivity from and engagement with key stakeholders in a hyper competitive 
marketplace. However, the differentiator 
here will rest in how the organisation chooses to react to the evolving mobility landscape. It is imperative that this is led 
from the top. The senior leadership of the 
organisation has to ensure that enterprise mobility is embedded in their stakeholder strategy. All three, people, processes and technologies, will need to be considered 
when incorporating mobility into 
organisation strategy. The dynamics of the ecosystem will inform and shape strategy and tactics for mobility. Managing legacy systems to 
support enterprise mobility
It is unlikely that organisations will be able 
to rip apart age-old systems and enabling processes to adopt mobility in a single 
stroke. Enterprises will need to establish 
a gradual roll-out plan involving the following: 
•	 Organisations upgrade legacy systems 
or create intermediate systems in 
order to enable mobility.
•	 Organisations change or remove legacy systems that impede mobility and establish new systems.
•	 Organisations create an alltogether new infrastructure dedicated to mobility and talking with the pre-existing systems.
The choice of one or a combination of the above will depend on ROI that the organisations feel will be achieved from the mobility platform. 
Most organisations are today working to 
port parts of ERP and CRM systems on 
their mobility platforms. Soon tablets and smartphones will be used to access entire ERP and CRM systems and a host of other 
systems hitherto inaccessible through this 
platform.Seamless experience between 
mobility and reality
Mobility solutions are being enabled for 
customers. Organisations are challenged with ensuring that customer experiences 
with the service or product and the brand 
are seamless across all channels including the mobility channel. This implies that the brand DNA needs to be adhered 
to for mobility solutions just the way 
organisations have transposed the brand experience onto web interfaces. 
For instance, a leading clothing 
manufacturer allows customers to buy, 
change, return, tailor clothes through 
their mobility application at their brick-and-mortar stores across the country so as to enable a seamless and controlled 
experience. 
Similarly, the organisation cannot have 
two distinct rule-sets for mobility and non-mobility usage for employees. Organisations will need to extend 
enterprise platforms into their mobility 
solutions and vice versa, if required. 
About Aegis School of Business 
and Telecommunication 
Aegis School of Business and Telecommunication is run by Aegis Knowledge Trust. It is among the top 
schools offering Telecom/ Technology Management Program. Aegis was started in 2002 with Bharti Airtel’s support to develop future telecom leaders with cross functional skills. Aegis Graham Bell Awards 
is an initiative of Aegis for developing culture and eco system for innovation. 
Aegis offers following programs in Full Time, Part Time Executive, Online and Graduate Certificate 
model:
• Masters Program/PGP in Telecom Management
• Post Graduation Program (PGP ) in Business Administration; Business Consulting; Business Analytics 
& Big Data; Cloud Computing and Enterprise Mobility
• Executive short term courses in Telecom, Management and IT
Aegis is pioneer in research and development in the field of Mobile & Online education. It is the first school to offer the mMBA on Tablet in 2011.  It has incubated the Mobile University (mUniversity) 
platform which is an end to end digital platform for education delivery for learners, enterprises, 
education providers and Government. mUniversity’s mission is to eradicate birth penalty by making quality education affordable and accessible to all. 
About PwC 
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a network of firms in 
157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, 
Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal 
entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
Sivarama Krishnan  
Executive Director 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. 
Email: sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0: For General use only
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 101 - October 2013 AegisReport.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
