Title: pwc_r-and-c-merger-and-acquisition-paper
Date Published: 2013-01-14 16:29:26+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_r-and-c-merger-and-acquisition-paper.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

The Indian 
consumer sector
What’s the deal?
www.pwc.in
A significant portion of deals fail in the due diligence phase, largely due to misalignment around valuation expectations 
and businesses not being prepared for a transaction. In our experience between 50-60%1 of deals that go into due 
diligence in emerging markets fail to complete. To ensure that more deals are converted, preparation is seen as a vital 
stage in the deal making process. Corporates (whether they are buyers or vendors) are recognising the need to invest time 
preparing for a deal, prior to approaching the market.
In this paper we focus on the some of the areas corporates in the consumer sector need to consider when preparing for 
a domestic or overseas acquisition. We also highlight the areas that shareholders and management teams must look at 
when preparing for an equity divestment or raising funds.
1. PwC, ‘Leveling the playing field: avoiding the pitfalls of the past when doing deals in emerging markets’ (2012)

1. The M&A landscape 
India’s fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector witnessed considerable deal activity over the last few years, 
through a combination of private equity, domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Interest in the sector 
stems from several factors such as, rising incomes allowing for more discretionary products, growing consumer 
aspirations to experiment between products, product categories and brands, up-trading in some categories (e.g. 
skincare), entry of new brands etc. Also working in India’s favour is the overall consumption forecast for the country 
and the FMCG segment being relatively unrestricted from an FDI perspective. Financial investors and corporates 
have been capitalising on these favourable market dynamics, year after year. Deals have occurred across a range of 
FMCG segments, particularly food and beverage, personal care and household products. Acquirers are looking to 
buy brands in under-penetrated categories that have a high growth potential and in markets that have not seen high 
levels of competition. Recent examples of international players entering the Indian market include multi-nationals 
such as General Mills and McCormick buying businesses in the food space. 
Indian players are also venturing outside the country. Notable examples include Godrej in the personal care and 
household products segment. The company has made acquisitions in South East Asia, Africa and South America 
(part of its 3x3 strategy to be a leader in home care, personal care and insecticides in Asia, Africa and South 
America). Similarly, both Wipro and VLCC recently announced acquisitions in South-East Asia; LD Waxson and 
Wyann International respectively.  
2. Key areas to consider when preparing for an acquisition  
Corporate strategy:  Corporates need to ensure that the key objectives for an acquisition are defined - geography, 
product, size, structure, etc. All these areas need to be well thought through before the companies commit to any specific 
process, let along engage with a potential target.
Target market:  A thorough understanding of the local environment needs to be conducted, such as studying the size of 
the addressable market, consumer tastes and preferences, sales channels and environment. A notable number of deals 
perform below expectations due to buyers not understanding the local market and therefore not handling a business in 
the correct manner post acquisition.
Funding ability:  Based on expected deal size, buyers need to have a strong understanding regarding how they propose 
financing any deal. Demonstrating a ready ability to fund an acquisition will add significant credibility in the minds 
of vendors, and it may also be factored into pricing. Funding may be available through several avenues (e.g. internal 
accruals, equity, debt) and should be considered much before approaching prospective acquisition targets.
Valuation discrepancies:  Views on value need to be clear internally, but stakeholders must also mindful of the local 
operating environment that they are seeking to buy into. With a significant number of deals breaking down due to 
perceived value differences, acquirers need to have a well thought out strategy. While price may play a key factor in a 
vendor’s final decision to sell, acquirers need to consider and ‘push’ other areas of value that they bring to the table as a 
buyer - e.g. R&D capabilities, procurement synergies etc.
Cultural differences:  Indian acquirers need to be aware of differences in the cultural nuances of other firms (especially 
overseas), their shareholders and particularly their employees. Being able to appreciate the differences in culture, 
religion, language, taste will go a long way in achieving a successful result.
Identify the decision maker: While corporates in India are usually controlled by one single decision maker, namely a 
promoter or promoter family, businesses outside India may have a different management structure. Ensuring you are 
engaging with the correct individual or individuals will be critical to eventual deal success.
2. PwC’s Getting on the right side of delta, PwC analysis3. Geographical nuances2
It is essential that FMCG buyers understand the local market nuances associated with other territories. Following are 
the list of challenges presented by different emerging market geographies:
Asia:  Strong competition from rival bidders and alternate sources of funds makes valuation one of the key issues for 
doing deals in Asia. Based on our data, about 50% deals begin diligence but are aborted because of valuations.
Latin America:  The regulatory environment in Latin America (e.g. Brazil), particularly for tax and labour, is a 
complex one. There are high taxes and social charges on payroll, sales and income. Taxes are diverse and legislation 
changes fast. Also compliance with corruption laws is an issue in many companies, and there may be undisclosed 
balance sheet transactions and commitments.
Eastern Europe:  Eastern Europe is in some ways becoming closer to a developed rather than a growth market. 
Corruption in businesses related to government contracts is still an issue in many Eastern European countries, 
although governments are taking steps to be more transparent in their purchasing, for example, using on-line 
auctions.
Africa:  Government policy is more central to deals in Africa. Some countries can change the rules on tax or legal 
parameters quickly. There is a massive deviation of culture and economies within regions. Companies that have 
failed often have not had thorough understanding of the local people, business conditions and environment.
4. Preparing your business  for sale or divestment of 
equity or a fundraising process 
Shareholders or management teams need to invest significant time preparing a business for a sell-side process, not 
only to increase the chances of completing it, but also to maximize value.  Three specific areas need to be focussed 
on:
Demonstrate the strong inherent value of your business:
• Ensure clear objectives (e.g. value range, funding requirement, equity to be divested) are set out for the process 
and all necessary stakeholders are aligned together
• Demonstrate a track record of historic growth through robust financials and a narrative outlining the key drivers 
(e.g. new product development, distribution growth etc.)
• Understand the business strengths, in particular those that will appeal to an investor / buyer, and be able to 
articulate them clearly to interested parties
... and, Maximise the long term value of the business
• Prove visibility and achievability of future earnings, thereby giving comfort to investors about how realistic the 
forecasts are
• Plan a well thought through process (e.g. readiness of information, timing of sale, what you want from an 
investor etc.) that leverages investor / buyer interest, thereby maximising the competitive tension and ultimately 
value
• Allude to new product potential / pipeline / future value drivers and opportunities for the business
.... While minimising the impact of any potential risks
• Maintain strict confidentiality regarding the process, at the same time as being prepared for any leaks. Concerns 
of key stakeholders (e.g. employees, customers) will need to be efficiently managed in the event of a leak
• Mitigate any tax and regulatory risks that may detract from value during a due diligence stage of a deal 
• Consider your business’ points of difference and how these will be maintained in future. What makes your 
business, product, brand stand out from its peers? How will these strengths be maintained in future?
5. M&A outlook for the consumer sector  
Recent deals show that acquirers can gain significantly from choosing to follow an inorganic growth route. Some of 
the particular advantages are as follows:  
• Opportunity to gain market share and a footprint in other fast growing countries / regions. E.g. Wipro’s 
acquisition of LD Waxson will allow them to begin building a presence in the Chinese consumer market.
• Access to an established and well invested distribution infrastructure capable of leveraging existing products that 
will be adaptable to the new geography. Kraft’s acquisition of Cadbury allowed access to Cadbury’s pan-India 
distribution network, the benefits of which are already being seen through the roll-out of legacy Kraft brands 
such as Oreo. 
• Technology that can be leveraged to develop new products in home territories. E.g. Godrej recently launched the 
Aer air freshener brand developed with the help of technology acquired through its acquisition of Megasari in 
Indonesia. We anticipate that as outbound M&A continues, we’ll see an increase in the cross-pollination of brands 
across relevant markets where there is greater congruency in consumers’ needs and aspirations. 
Despite the current concerns around the global economy, it’s likely that India will to continue to see M&A and 
private equity activity within the FMCG sector, both on a domestic and cross-border basis. The fast growing and 
differentiated Indian FMCG sector will continue to receive interest from financial investors, who will remain focussed 
on the demand being created by Indian consumers, and western corporates who need to look at emerging markets to 
meet wider growth aspirations.
Further, it’s likely that established Indian corporates will continue to seek out acquisitions in overseas markets. While 
the slow growth and mature profile of western markets is unlikely to be appealing, Indian companies are likely to 
continue to focus on high growth markets such as South-East Asia, Africa, Latin America etc. 
pwc.in
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the 
information contained in this publication without obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy 
or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept no liability, 
and disclaim all responsibility, for the consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in reliance on the information contained in this publication or for 
any decision based on it. Without prior permission of PwCPL, this publication may not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to in any documents.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK XYZ- January 2013 The Indian Consumer sector.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
