Title: pwc_imperatives-for-growth-the-wellness-industry
Date Published: 2013-07-30 19:23:33+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_imperatives-for-growth-the-wellness-industry.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Imperatives for growth
The wellness industry
www.pwc.in
5th Annual Wellness Conference: August 2013
Sizing the wellness market opportunity  p4/ Key levers for sustained and  
profitable growth p6 / Looking forward p26/ Glossary and citations p28

Foreword
Dear reader,
In this third year of PwC’s knowledge partnership with FICCI on the wellness sector and the fifth edition of the FICCI 
Wellness conference, it gives us great pleasure to bring to you Imperatives for growth:The wellness industry.
Even as consumer expenditure has grown at its slowest rate in the last 8 years, the wellness sector has bucked the 
trend and continues to grow from strength to strength. Resilience in consumer spending on wellness products and 
services is a reflection of increasing consumer awareness and acceptance of wellness as an integral part of their 
lifestyle. The large 700 billion INR opportunity offered by the Indian wellness industry has sparked the interest of 
global and domestic entrants into this space, even as incumbents are directing their efforts on scaling up operations. 
This has also sparked increased levels of interest from the investor community. Consequently, increased availability 
of funds is likely to propel deal activity in this space.
While industry prospects continue to remain bright, players are adopting various strategies to sustain topline and 
bottomline improvements. It is interesting to note how players are juggling multiple  brands to create distinct value 
propositions for diverse customer segments. Cost rationalisation is high on the agenda for many companies in this 
sector — rising inputs costs due to global inflation, volatility in currency movements, high rentals and attrition are 
putting increasing pressure on margins of industry players.
With the industry slated to reach one trillion INR by 2015, it is important for industry stakeholders — private 
participants as well as the government—to take collective action around creating an adequate pool of trained, 
certified and reliable talent for the sector, and improving the effectiveness of mechanisms to monitor and regulate 
quality standards in the industry. A comprehensive approach towards quality and compliance will also be 
instrumental in instilling confidence regarding India’s capabilities in the wellness arena among global consumers.
Rachna Nath  
Executive Director and National 
Leader, Retail and Consumer  
PwCSandeep Ahuja  
Chairman, FICCI National Wellness Committee  
MD, VLCC Healthcare Limited
4       PwC
The wellness market in India continued to 
tread its projected growth trajectory, to reach 
a market size of 700 billion INR in 2012. 
This represents a growth of more than 18% 
over the previous year. Products continue to 
comprise a majority share of 55 to 60% of the 
total market share. 
Despite the slowdown in economic growth 
in 2012, the wellness industry has shown 
little signs of downturn as consumer spend 
on wellness products and services continues 
to be resilient. While industry prospects still 
remain bright, companies are fine-tuning their 
business and operating model  in order to 
drive sustained revenue growth and  
ensure profitability.  
Levers for revenue growth
Adopting a balanced approach to scaling 
up: Franchising has been a common route to 
achieve rapid scale. However, companies are 
also exploring hybrid models and expanding  
the network of  their own outlets in order to 
manage the challenges around loss of control 
and brand dilution.
Multi-brand strategy to address diverse 
customer segments:  Companies are chalking 
out a multi-brand strategy in order to target 
distinct customer segments, penetrate deeper 
into existing markets, and simultaneously 
diversify into newer markets. 
Investing in building consumer awareness 
and trust:   Consumer awareness and trust  
plays a key role in the growth of  the wellness 
products and services market as well as 
widening its consumer base. Players have 
taken up a number of initiatives to educate 
and improve consumer awareness regarding  
the benefits of wellness products and services, 
and are setting up mechanisms for pro-active 
consumer connect and feedback.Executive summary
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            5Levers for growth in profitability 
Diversifying portfolio in order to drive profitability:    
In the wellness industry, products traditionally have had 
higher margins than services.  Many wellness service  
players are diversifying into products  in order to improve 
business margins.
Chalking out a premiumisation strategy:  Players are  
adding premium products and services to their portfolio mix 
in a bid to shore up gross margins. However, this necessitates 
creating a distinct value proposition and investing in 
additional capabilities.
Developing innovative strategies in order to manage 
cost pressure: Players across the industry are grappling 
with  issues such as rising input, distribution, rental and 
manpower costs. In order to mitigate margin risks, they are 
being more pre-emptive and responsive to market dynamics. 
They are constantly in pursuit of new options in order to prune 
operating expenses. This in turn may call for companies to 
challenge existing practices and re-orient internal processes.
Industry concerns and challenges
There are a number of systemic challenges faced by the 
wellness industry which, if left unaddressed, can stymie the 
future growth potential of the industry. Prevailing challenges 
include the following:  
• While players are developing strategies to control  
costs and arrive at optimal cost structures, managing input 
costs continue to be a challenge due to the  
limited capability of  the players to pass on these  
costs to the customers.
• As highlighted in the previous editions of the PwC-FICCI 
wellness publications, the wellness industry continues to 
face a talent crunch. This paucity of skilled talent has 
resulted in high manpower costs and attrition levels.   
This may result in a ‘war for talent’, unless active  
measures are taken to create credible and accessible 
training infrastructure.•  On the whole, industry consensus emphasises on the 
importance of improving the overall quality standards 
within the sector, and project the image of India as a 
high-quality wellness destination.  Accreditation and 
quality certifications are pre-requisites  in order to achieve 
this goal. However, there are gaps that need to be bridged 
to mimimise execution challenges and ensure conformity 
to quality standards across the industry.
A call for action
Corrective measures to tackle these challenges have been 
introduced in the past. However, factors such as low consumer 
awareness and execution challenges around certification 
have limited the industry from achieving its desired results. 
Collective action from multiple stakeholders  such as industry 
leaders, investors, the government and infrastructure and 
service providers to the wellness industry, can be a panacea for 
such challenges, and thereby enable the sector to live up to its 
trillion rupee potential by 2015.
6       PwCSizing the wellness 
market opportunity
Despite macroeconomic headwinds, consumer spend in 
wellness remained largely buoyant. The wellness market 
in India  registered a growth rate of 18-20% during 2012, 
to touch a market size of  700 billion INR. Products 
continue to constitute a majority share of the market.
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            7The market has grown largely in line with our 
expectations. We had projected a growth rate of 
20% in our 2012 report titled, ‘Winds of Change 
– The Wellness consumer’. 
The 680-720 billion INR wellness market has 
grown at a rate of 18-20% over last year
The  wellness offerings market has been segmented along  hygiene, curative and enhancement needs of the consumer.  
Key features are as follows:
• Hygiene needs stem from the basic necessity to maintain personal cleanliness.
• Curative needs are aligned to prevent diseases, cure ailments and maintain a healthy lifestyle.
• Enhancement needs focus on improving personal appearance and self-confidence.The wellness market landscape
0%10%20%30%40%
SpasAlternate therapy 
services
Alternate therapy productsHair and 
skincare
Salons and 
beauty services
Colour cosmetics and fragrancesCosmetic treatmentsFitness servicesFitness 
equipment
Slimming 
productsDietary supplementsWellness food and beverages
HygieneCurative / preventive
EnhancementSlimming services
Services (40 -45%)
Products (55 -60%)CAGR 2009 -2012Three large segments namely,  wellness 
food and beverages, hair and skincare and alternate therapy services, account 
for more than half of the wellness 
market in India.
Colour cosmetics and fragrances, slimming services and slimming 
products continue to be the fastest 
growing segments within the market.
Size of  the bubble corresponds to the market size  
  Represents a size of 50 bn INR
Source: PwC research and analysis, company annual reports, trade databases and primary research
8       PwC
Rising consumer spend, increased availability of funding and expansion into 
tier-2 and 3 cities have been growth drivers for the wellness industry
Consumer spend in wellness continues to be buoyant
According to the Central Statistical Organisation, growth in consumption expenditure has slowed down to 4% in 
2012-13 compared to 8% in 2011-12. However, consumer spend on wellness products and services continues to be 
resilient with a marginal slowdown in value growth. 
Increased availability of funding is spurring deal activity within the sector
Increasing attractiveness of the wellness industry has given a boost to deal activity within the sector, which over 
the recent years has been on an upswing. Over 40 deals were inked since FY 2009  as compared to the pre- FY 2009 
period where less than 15 deals were inked. Deal activity continues to be driven by strategic deals, which have 
accounted for over 65% of the total deals since 2009.
Expansion to tier-2 and 3 cities
• Rising income, increasing awareness among consumers in tier-2 and 3 cities, and lower rental/manpower 
costs are some of the drivers for expansion into tier-2 and 3 cities.
• For a number of wellness players, over 50% of their new store additions, during  FY 2013, have been beyond 
the top 15 cities.Rising competitive intensity in the wellness industry
• High growth prospects and opportunities within the wellness industry have attracted a number of new 
entrants (global as well as domestic), and accelerated expansion plans of existing players.
• For instance, the salon and spa services segment has witnessed the entry of a number of global players such as 
French hair-salon chain, Dessange International, Jean-Claude Biguine Salon  and Spa, Saks Hair and Beauty 
salons, Toni and Guy, etc. Similarly, the fitness services industry which, until a few  years back, had only a 
small number of organised players, today comprises of 100-plus centre chains. This includes domestic players 
such as Talwalkars as well as international chains such as  Gold’s gym, Fitness First, Anytime Fitness, etc.1
3
42“There is strong demand in tier-2 and 3 
cities with growing awareness for health 
and fitness among consumers. Our 
growth is being driven by  expanding 
presence in these under-explored 
markets with strong demand”
Anant Gawande, CFO, Talwalkars
Source: PwC research, trade press, CSO, company websites23%
9%32% 32%27%
9%68%
42%20%
9%25%13%50%
73%33% 36%
Fitness 
playerSlimming servicesplayer  Large salon player  Fitness playerSalon player% of store additions in FY13
Others
Top 35 cities
Top 15 cities
Top 4 cities
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            9The 285 -290 billion INR beauty care market has grown at a rate 15 to 20% 
while the fitness and slimming market was estimated at 60 billion INR in 2012, 
growing at a rate of 18-22%  “While growth in the fitness services sector continues  
 to be in high double digits, there has been some 
contraction in spends by customers, with customers 
scaling down on extra services. This has pushed  
the impetus for increasing penetration and  
driving enrollments”
                                     
Istayak Ansari, COO, Gold’s Gym India
Beauty care
• Consumer spend on beauty care continues to be resilient, 
with a marginal slowdown in value growth. 
• Within the cosmetic products segment, the hair and skin 
care  sub-segment continues to dominate the market. 
However, the share of  the colour cosmetics, fragrances and 
deodorants sub-segments have been steadily increasing 
over the years and are expected to account for over 
one-third of the total cosmetic products market by 2015.• The organised market for salons has been growing at a 
much faster rate and currently accounts for nearly a fifth of 
the total market.  Going forward, this is expected to grow as 
players increase the number of outlets.
• Non-surgical or minimally invasive procedures have  
overtaken surgical procedures due to lower cost, shorter 
duration and lesser recovery time associated with the  
former. Increased acceptance  of such procedures has been 
driven by the consumer need to look good and  the rising 
levels of awareness on its minimal side effects.
Fitness and slimming
• Fitness services continue to account for nearly half  of this segment. 
• Slimming products have grown at a rapid  rate of 35-40% in  
the last one year,  driven by urban consumers, who are placing a greater  
premium on looking slim and fit, and the wider availability of products  
through retail or direct selling channels. 
• The slimming services segment has grown at a rate of 20-25% in 2012. The 
market remains fragmented, with most players having a limited number of 
centres and focussing only on one or two cities within India.
• The fitness equipment segment has seen a moderate slowdown in its volume 
growth  over the last one year. The share of the home segment has not grown 
in line with industry expectations, since customers have either scaled down or 
postponed their purchase decisions. Moreover, reduced capex by gym chains 
into their new centres, located within  tier- 2 and tier-3 towns, have  also 
impacted demand.
Source: PwC research and analysis and the International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery60% 35% 
5% Cosmetic productsBeauty centres 
Beauty treatments 
25%50%60%75%50%40%
2009 2010 2011Non-surgical
Surgical
45-50%20%20%10-15%Slimming products 
Slimming services 
Fitness equipment 
Fitness services 
10       PwCNutrition foods, beverages and supplements comprise 
a 170-180 billion INR market in India
• FFB is the largest segment within the nutrition food and beverages 
market.  Fortified beverage mixes, biscuits and oils comprise over 80% of 
the overall FFB market.
• Fortified oils is the fastest growing category with sharp increases in prices 
during the last one year due to high inflation in the country.
• Players are also adding new categories to the FFB product portfolio, such 
as noodles, cooking sauces, eggs, probiotic yoghurt, etc. 
• Traditional herbal dietary supplements are becoming increasingly popular over 
other supplements,  with companies investing into R&D and focussing on 
product innovation to address taste barriers.
• Multi-vitamins continue to be well-entrenched due to its established association 
with holistic health benefits in the minds of consumers.
• Companies are focusing on exploring new distribution partners such as online 
and specialty wellness retailers. 
• Consumer affinity for packaged, naturally healthy products is increasing 
due to  the deep association  of concepts such as ‘natural’ with ‘health’.
• As fortified products are becoming the ‘new normal’ in categories such as 
biscuits and bakery products, naturally healthy variants such as high-fibre 
biscuits and snacks are being launched at a moderate price premium.
• BFY food and beverages continues to be the fastest growing segment, though on a 
smaller base.
• BFY products are typically perceived by consumers as being  ‘less unhealthy’ than 
their regular counterparts, and hence finds relevance in a number of indulgence 
food categories such as cola beverages, chips, chocolates, confectionery etc.17 - 18%
Naturally healthy 
(NH) products
India ranks among the top 10 global growth markets for nutrition F&B
Globally, growth in nutrition F&B is being fuelled by emerging markets, with markets such as India, China, Brazil 
and Indonesia expected to add more than $ 100 bn USD bn between 2012 and 2017.
Source: PwC research and analysis, Euromonitor54 - 55%
Fortified foods and 
beverages (FFB)
22 - 24%
Dietary 
supplements
4 - 5%
Better-for-you 
(BFY) products

Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            11The rejuvenation segment has posted a healthy growth in view 
of  the expansion drive by players while the alternate therapy 
segment  has maintained its growth trajectory
Rejuvenation 
• The rejuvenation market in India is estimated at 7 billion to 8 billion INR.
• The rejuvenation sector witnessed a number of deals last year. For e.g., Six Senses Spa joined hands with 
Jaypee Group for establishing one of the largest spas in India,  private equity-backed The Four Fountains 
Spa acquired Power Spa Pvt Ltd.
• Day spas continue to grow at a faster clip compared to destination and hotel spas. Players are introducing 
new and innovative offerings (e.g., fusion therapies that blend western and Indian therapies, service 
combinations, use of exotic ingredients, etc.)  in order to attract footfalls and differentiate themselves from 
competition.
Alternate therapy
• The alternate therapy market in India is estimated at 160 billion to 180 billion INR. Lower costs of alternate 
therapy treatments has made it affordable to a larger cross-section of the population. However, the need for 
standardisation and lack of compliance around accreditation still remain unaddressed.
• Disbursement of government grants  and schemes for the Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy  
(AYUSH) sector has increased at a CAGR of 31% between 2008- 2011, with a major thrust on the 
development of AYUSH hospitals and dispensaries, educational institutions and R&D support. The 12th 
Five-Year Plan (FYP) has recommended budgetary allocations of up to 10% (of the total budget of the health 
sector in India) for the AYUSH sector.
•  The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) has issued a notification for the inclusion of 
non-allopathic systems within mediclaim insurance policies. This is expected to provide a boost to the 
sector. However, getting a buy-in from insurance companies  in order to ensure adoption is critical.
• Increasing concerns about the side-effects of chemical-based products and services is expected to give an 
impetus to wellness providers to diversify their product portfolio into segments such as ayurvedic and 
herbal product categories.
Wellness services can play an important role in boosting inflow of international 
tourists to India
Year-on-year growth of international tourist arrivals
-2%12%9%
5%
2%46%
31%
17%
-3%13%21%
16%
2008 - 09 2009 - 10 2010 - 11 2011 - 12India
Sri Lanka
Thailand
• Post-2009, countries such as Sri Lanka and Thailand have grown their international tourist arrivals at a 
faster clip as compared to India. The wellness services sector (especially AYUSH) has the potential to be  
a key driver for promoting India as a wellness destination and boosting international tourist footfalls.
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press, Health Division Planning Commission, government of India
12       PwC
Key levers for sustained 
and profitable growth
Players have adopted 
multiple strategies in order 
to ensure consistent topline 
and bottomline growth, even 
as they deal with systemic 
challenges in the industry.While the recent slowdown in the economy is 
yet to significantly dampen prospects in the 
wellness industry, a key concern and 
challenge, for many recent entrants (and even 
incumbents), has been ensuring sustained 
revenue growth with profitable operations.
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            131.     Franchising has been a common route to achieve rapid scale. However, companies 
are also exploring hybrid models and expanding the network of their own outlets 
to manage challenges around loss of control and brand dilution
Franchising continues to be a popular  
route to achieve rapid scale
• Franchising allows companies to  rapidly build up  
their network  without straining their capital  
resources, and drive deeper market penetration  
using easily replicable models. 
78%
22%9%25%22%
78%91%75%
Slimming services 
player Fitness player Large salon 
player National salon
player 
Franchisee Company owned 
However, the risks around loss of control 
and erosion of brand equity need to be 
managed
• Risks associated with the lack of adherence to quality 
standards, inconsistent service experience, 
inadequate training and education to franchisees 
and malpractices reported by franchisees, can lead to 
an erosion of brand value.
• Managing best practices and processes around 
franchise identification, selection, training and 
governance  in order to ensure consistency of 
customer experience have become critical.Players realise the need to establish standards 
and norms through their own stores before 
expanding through a franchise network
• Many players who scaled up rapidly through the 
franchisee route, have now set up plans to increase 
number of own outlets. 
• Players who continue to expand through the franchisee 
route are becoming more cautious and selective in their 
approach towards selecting partners.
• Companies are strengthening their brands by 
establishing their own outlets in new markets, before 
seeking franchise partners. This has helped them 
develop best practices to support the local franchisee 
network better. 
• Despite these changes, franchising will continue  
to play a critical role in the growth of the  
wellness industry.
Emerging hybrid models are being used to 
bridge the gap between control vs scalability
• Shared capex models help companies maintain a 
greater degree of control and visibility over their 
respective operations. For example, Talwalkars 
operates its outlets through a 51% subsidiary model, 
where  the capex is shared with a local master 
franchisee, while the company reserves the  right to 
buy back its share.  Players are managing these challenges 
by striving to balance between owned vs 
franchise outlets as well as exploring hybrid 
partnership models“We are seeking to establish our 
own stores first locally which 
can be used to understand 
regional markets and used as a 
benchmark by the franchise 
partner to align standard 
practices and train local talent”
                   
Sandeep Ahuja, Managing  
Director, VLCC Healthcare Ltd. Levers for revenue growth
Source: PwC research, trade press and company annual reports
14       PwC2.     Venture capital and private equity funding into the wellness sector 
has increased  over the recent years...
“Along with growth capital for 
the business, a private equity 
investor also brings in fresh 
perspectives backed by experience 
and introduces best practices and 
professional standards for 
business operations”
Vikram Bhatt, Director,  
Enrich Salons
• There have  more than a dozen venture capital  and private equity deals inked  between March 2009 and June 2013. 
Interest in this sector has grown with the emergence of organised players, increasingly seeking to pursue equity funding 
in order to drive growth plans. 
• While a majority of investments are largely early-stage or first-round funding, players such as VLCC, YLG, Healthkart.
com and Guardian Lifecare have raised more than one round of capital, indicating an increasing buy-in for the value-
creation potential of the wellness sector. 
• PE- backed companies have been able to expand into newer regions, widen their portfolio and drive inorganic growth 
through acquisitions. 
Company Investor (year of investment) How have these investments helped ? 
Enrich Hair and Skin Solu -
tions •	JM Financial Limited (2010) •	Grew from 15 salons in 2010 to  50 in 2013
•	Revenues grew by a CAGR of over 40% between 2010-12
YLG •	Helion Venture Partners  (2009)
•	Everstone Capital  (2012)•	Helped fuel organic growth from one salon in 2009 to nearly 30 
in 2013 
•	Revenues grew by a CAGR of nearly 50% from 2010-12
VLCC •	Everstone Capital (2007)
•	CLSA (invested in 2004, exited 
in 2011)•	Deployed funds  in order to increase locations in India, expand 
overseas,  plan global acquisitions, develop an education 
infrastructure and strengthen products business 
The Four Fountains Spa •	Fulcrum Ventures (2007) •	Started in one city and thereby expanded into 10 cities within 
India in a span of five years
•	Acquisition of Power Spa in 2013
Healthkart.com •	Intel Capital (2013)
•	Seqioua Capital, Omidiyar Net -
work, Kae Capital (2011)•	Deployed seed funding and later stage  funding in order to 
expand  its product portfolio,  launch a marketplace for pre -
scribed drugs and for the acquisition of madeinhealth.com 
Guardian Lifecare •	Mitsui Ventures Global  
Fund  (2012) 
•	Samara Capital (2008)•	Funds deployed for organic growth and retail expansion into 
new markets 
Source: ISI, Mergermarkets, PwC research
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            15...however, there is opportunity to accelerate pace of investments going forward
• While there are only a handful of players today with revenues of 0.5-1 billion INR, new investment opportunities 
are expected to emerge as smaller players seek to grow in size and scale
 – The wellness sector has a limited number of players having a sizeable magnitude of operations (i.e. revenues of over 
0.5-1 billion INR). This can be attributed to the relative recent entry of organised players ‘into a sector, which was 
largely characterised by small-scale operations and single-store outlets. However, entry of many corporate players 
in this segment is expected to generate more investment opportunities as they scale up their operations and look for 
funds to drive their expansion plans
• Exits have been relatively few in the wellness sector, due to the recent vintage of most investments in this space. 
 – The sector has witnessed some exits by private equity investors due to growth in operations of their respective 
investees.  For example:
• ChrysCapital exited from Zydus Wellness in 2010 at an estimated return of 4.7 times its initial investment. 
• After seven  years of investment, CLSA exited from VLCC through the promoter buy-back route in 2011. Revenues 
of the latter tripled during the same period. 
 – However, given that many investments have taken place recently, and since most companies are still in their 
early stages of growth, successful exits are yet to be consistently demonstrated. IPO is yet to emerge as a proven 
exit strategy, with only two IPOs in this sector. IPO plans for some of the larger players have been put on hold or 
postponed due to poor market sentiments and  the volatility of  the bourses. 
• Due to the current weak economic sentiment, investors are adopting a calibrated strategy for investments.  
Players need to take cognizance of this and plan for the future. 
Source: ISI, PwC research
“The current economic sentiment is likely
to make investors cautious about investing
in new sectors – wellness, though a 
growing and attractive market, is no 
exception.This is an opportune time for 
players tolook inward, improve their 
financial andoperational hygiene and 
prepare forgrowth once the investment 
climatebecomes positive”
Siddharth Kothari, Director, JM Financial
Investment Managers Limited
16       PwC•	Sports drinks
•	Noodles
•	Vegetable oil
•	Milk
•	Yogurt
•	Fruit juices
•	Water
•	Atta3.      A multi-brand strategy to target disparate customer segments along with a 
presence across a wide range of categories have helped companies increase 
penetration into existing markets as well as drive entry into new markets
In the health and wellness food and beverages category, players have launched several new categories  
in order to increase penetration
•	Drink concentrates
•	Health drink powders
•	Biscuits
•	Cereals•	Health drink 
powders
•	Eggs
•	Biscuits
•	Cereals
•	Energy drinks
•	Bread
•	Nutrition barsPre-1990CurrentCategories under functional or fortified food and beverages
Multiple brands to target distinct 
customer segments
• Players adopt a multi-brand strategy to target 
disparate customer segments with varying value 
drivers:
 – L’oreal India has multiple brands targeting 
different consumer segments- Garnier, 
L’Oreal Paris and Maybelline targeting the 
mass and ‘masstige’ segments, Lancome 
for the premium segment and L’Oreal 
Professional for the salon segment.
 – CavinKare has a mix of unisex high-end spa-
and-salons (Limelite) and mid-range family 
salons (Green Trends). Providing consumers with options to  
induce trial
• In an effort to target a wider base of customer and 
induce trial among current non-users, companies 
are launching smaller SKUs (sachets and tubes) even 
for their mass premium and premium products.
• Companies are also using coupon websites such as 
Snapdeal, Groupon, etc. in order to induce trial 
among consumers by offering discounts of upto  
50 to 80% on services at salons, spas, fitness  
centres, etc.
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            174.      Players are increasingly investing in consumer education and increasing 
the visibility of their wellness offerings
Conducting health camps and offering free health check-ups
Educating customers regarding the benefits of specific ingredients
Social media and online presence to generate consumer awareness• Leading H&W food and beverage players in India such as Marico and Quaker Oats conducts health campaigns by 
observing  events such as the ‘World Heart Day’, encouraging consumers to maintain a healthy lifestyle and offering free 
cholesterol checks-ups for consumers.
• Slimming centres and bariatric surgery players in India are generating awareness regarding issues such as fighting 
obesity by observing anti-obesity days, conducting free health camps, publishing guides to educate consumers, 
organising campaigns involving marathon runs etc.
• Wellness product players have been investing in educating consumers about the benefits of specific wellness ingredients  
in order to mould customer preference towards their products.
• For instance, H&W food and beverage players have extensively focussed on promoting  the benefits of ingredients such 
as Omega-3 fatty acids, Oryzanol, etc. so that consumers can become familiar with these ingredients and also make 
conscious choices to buy products containing these ingredients.
• Similarly, within the beauty segment, players have focused on educating their customers regarding the benefits of 
ingredients such as activated carbon, AHA (in skincare) and keratin (in hair care).
• A number of product and service players have launched informative and interactive websites in order to promote 
wellness among  their consumers. Some aspects of these interactive elements include columns such as ‘Ask the expert’ 
which gives the consumer access to expert advice, health tips, tools such as BMI calculator, heart health test, recipes for 
healthy foods etc.
• Some players have also adopted an active social media presence providing consumers a platform to interact with the 
brand and create a ‘community’ of users.
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press, company websites“We are investing in building consumer awareness for 
our products through efforts such as making product 
information available on our website, having brand 
representatives or advisors at the point of sale  to 
explain product features etc.”
Philipe Haydon, CEO, Pharmaceuticals,  
The Himalaya Drug Company
18       PwC5.      Players are undertaking a number of measures to win customer trust 
and improve overall quality standards in the industry...
“Consumer scepticism remains high in the 
wellness products space because of the influx of 
many spurious products in the market, specially 
in the dietary supplement segment. The industry 
continues to invest in building consumer 
awareness through various activities.”
Rahul Malhotra, Assistant Vice President, 
Guardian Life Care Pvt. ltd. 
Certifications and accreditations are some of the tools available to 
players in order to build credibility
• Recognising the need for accreditation within the wellness industry, the National 
Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare (NABH) had put in place a 
national set of guidelines, back in 2008-09,  for the accreditation of wellness 
centres. Accredited centres are recognised by a ‘mark of excellence’, publicised by 
the Ministry of Tourism at various forums and are provided financial support.
• Fitness training players such as BFY Sports and Fitness offer international 
certifications such as the American Council on Exercise (ACE) for fitness trainers, 
while domestic players like VLCC have launched certification courses in 
association with IGNOU.
Players are providing an increasing amount of information to 
customers in an attempt to earn their trust
• Leading wellness product companies have focused on backing their claims with 
verifiable and quantified data from publicised clinical trials. 
• Product players are also making detailed nutritional information available on 
product packaging including details of ingredients, calories, carbohydrates, fat 
content (MUFA, PUFA and transfat), protein, etc. per serving.
Players are improving their customer complaint redressal systems 
to ensure a better customer experience
• Players are setting up effective consumer complaint redressal systems in order to 
address consumer concerns and assure them of quality products and services.
• Some wellness operators have constituted refund policies in case customers are 
not fully satisfied with their services.
• Product companies include information on customer feedback and complaint 
channels as a part of their packaging. Redressal mechanisms include refund or 
replacement of defective products at no cost to the consumer.The ASCI has been active  
in addressing issues 
around unsubstantiated 
claims in media
• The ASCI has set up a  
National Advertising 
Monitoring Service (NAMS) 
for print and TV ads.
• The ASCI is actively focusing 
on ensuring that misleading, 
false or unsubstantiated 
claims are not made in 
advertising campaigns by 
players. 
• On an average, the NAMS 
monitors 1,500 TV and 45,000 
newspaper ads. The body 
received and processed over 
780 complaints against 
misleading ads in 2012-13.
• ASCI received the Best 
Practices Silver Award for 
NAMS in 2013 from the 
European Advertising 
Standards Alliance.
Source: PwC research and analysis, NABH and the ASCI
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            19Source: PwC research and analysis, NABH...however, there are gaps that need to be bridged to mimimise execution 
challenges and ensure conformity to quality standards across the industry“Both NABH and the wellness players need to work 
together to increase the awareness of standards among 
customers and overcome current challenges around 
flexibility of curriculum, cost of implementation and 
ease of execution of the standards.”
 Anurag Kedia, Director, The Four Fountains Spa
Regulatory measures to govern quality standards in the wellness industry 
and address issues around credibility have room for improvement
Current status of NABH 
accreditation for wellness centres
Current status of FSSAI regulation on functional and novel foodsOnly five wellness operators have been accredited by the NABH till date, while 12 additional applications are currently being processed.
While FSSAI regulations have been notified in 2011, amendments covering functional and novel foods are still in the draft stage, and are yet to be implemented.
There are a number of steps to be undertaken in order to ensure that the regulations are relevant 
to the industry, improve compliance and ensure effective enforcement.
• Tailored guidelines for various segments of the wellness industry: Industry participants 
have voiced the need to tailor the NABH guidelines to suit segment-specific dynamics.
• Reduce execution challenges and costs: High cost of accreditation is a deterrent among 
industry participants, and the process is viewed as long and cumbersome. Simplification of 
the process will result in higher acceptance within the industry.
• Improve consumer awareness regarding accreditation:  Consumer awareness regarding 
accreditation continues to remain low, leaving players with little incentive to invest  in this 
process. The industry and QCI need to work jointly in order to promote and improve 
consumer awareness regarding accreditation.
• Ensure implementation of regulatory norms:  For wellness products, enforcement of 
quality guidelines and regulations continues to be a lacunae. Monitoring and punitive action 
against defaulters need to be stepped up.There is also need 
for the industry 
to introspect and 
develop a common 
agenda to address  
these concerns
• What steps are 
required to ensure 
regulatory norms are 
effective and relevant 
to the industry? 
• Is there a need for an 
industry body as a 
watchdog to keep 
malpractices in check 
and ensure adherence 
to standards? 
• What measures can be 
taken to instil 
consumer credibility 
and ensure the 
wellness industry 
captures a bigger share 
of the domestic 
consumer and tourist 
wallet?
Many countries globally are strengthening regulations in order to improve the credibility of 
the wellness sector
For e.g., Europe has defined new norms which prescribe a new  format for mandatory nutrition labeling. It has also 
mandated a list of approved generic health claims that companies have to adhere to while advertising to counter 
unsubstantiated health claims for nutritional products.
In the wellness spa segment, the Spa Industry Association of Canada has developed a national quality assurance program 
to monitor quality and integrity of the services  offered by its members.
20       PwC1.      Many wellness service players are targeting an increase in share of 
product-led revenues to drive profitability
Since products have traditionally enjoyed higher margins, pure-play service players are 
diversifying their portfolio to include products to drive growth in bottomline
8-20%15-25%20-30%
Service only companiesService - cum product companiesProduct only companiesTypical EBITDA margins for leading wellness players in India  
Products have traditionally had higher margins than services, with EBITDA for beauty and wellness products 
ranging from 20-30% vs service operating margins of 8-20%+• While profitability is largely a function of the segment a 
company belongs to, pure-play wellness service 
companies are facing challenges in improving margins, 
due to high rental, utility and manpower costs.
• Many leading wellness service companies have 
successfully added products to their portfolio. As the 
share of contribution of product revenues to the topline 
has increased, profit margins have grown in tandem.
• Alternately, large product companies such as HUL, 
Marico and CavinKare, that have diversified into 
services, in order to establish a personalised brand 
connect with their customers, are building capabilities 
from the ground-up level, and have adopted a long-term 
perspective towards profitable growth from services.
Source: PwC research, company annual reports and trade pressLevers for profitability growth
“In recent years, we have focussed on growing our skin, hair 
and bodycare products manufacturing and retailing 
business, along with our services business. With our unique 
proposition and deep connect with customers, expanding into 
retailing of these products was a natural extension of our 
operations, since we had already developed them in-house for 
use as consumables in our centres”
Sandeep Ahuja, MD, VLCC Healthcare Ltd.
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            212.      While a premiumisation strategy has been often used to improve 
margins, it necessitates a distinct value proposition and investment in 
building additional capabilities
Introducing high-end variants of popular brands
• Several companies  are leveraging on the brand recall and strength of their popular brands, by 
launching high end variants to tap the ‘wellness believer*’ segment
• However, it is important to clearly distinguish  between the offerings and justify price premium of these 
high-end variants. Differentiation can be based on various parameters such as the following:
 – Technology (e.g. Parachute Advansed)
 – Format (e.g. Lakme Absolute salons, Bevels salon from Jawed Habib) 
 – Functional benefits (e.g. Saffola Gold, Horlicks Gold)
Launching products for the professional services segment
• Products tailored for professional services enjoy higher margins over their retail counterparts.  Hence, 
players are launching high-end professional grooming products such as shampoos, conditioners, hair 
serums, facial kits etc. targeted specifically at spas and salons
 – For example, Dabur launched a range of products under the ‘Fem’ brand for spas, salons and beauty 
centres, Henkel launched a mass-focussed professional hair care brand  and CavinKare  launched a 
range of mid-segment professional products in skin and hair care
 – However, professional grooming products  require different sales and marketing capabilities 
compared to the retail segment as well as a separate channel strategy. This segment also needs to 
be backed by strong technical support team for resolving client issues and queries.
Bringing in brands from global portfolio to India
• Many players are bringing in their global brands into India, typically positioned a few notches higher in 
India as compared to their global positioning.
• However, in order to gain acceptance in the Indian market, companies have to invest significantly into 
branding, marketing and distribution capabilities.Examples of premiumisation strategy
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press
* In our 2012 report titled Winds of Change – The Wellness Consumer, we defined a wellness believer as a consumer who seeks solutions beyond 
general wellbeing, and is receptive to products and services with distinct functional benefits1
2
3
22       PwC3.     Even as players adopt measures to mitigate and minimise rising raw 
material costs, challenges around high inflation and volatility in global 
markets are likely to continue in the short term
Rising inflation and fluctuating raw material prices have led to a substantial rise in input 
cost impacting the bottomline of wellness product companies
Cost of goods sold as % of total operating expense has jumped over the last three years for major players1
 45-55%55-65%
FY 09 FY 12
While measures have been undertaken by industry players to hedge imminent risks, 
input costs can be controlled only to a certain extent
Input cost pressures
Wide fluctuation and increases 
in raw material prices
Inflation
Fluctuations in exchange rate
Increase in crude oil pricesMitigated to some extent through forward and options contract
Alternate sourcing models such as reverse online auctions•	Backward integrate into producing critical raw materials
•	Switch to lower cost alternatives
•	Expand  to larger vendor base 
•	Purchase material from tax-ex-empted zones 
•	Advance booking and long term contracts for key raw materialsStrategies adopted by companies
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press, company annual reportsPreviously, players used to 
alter grammage to manage 
cost increases and keep product 
prices constant. However, due 
to recent government norms 
to standardise pack sizes, this 
option is no longer viable.Even though input costs have been on an 
upswing, industry players have not been able to 
pass on the entire increase in input costs, and 
have maintained thrust on volume growth.
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            234.     Distribution is challenging in a fragmented market; newer models 
such as distribution alliances and online channels are being used to 
rationalise costs
In a fragmented and diverse market like India, distribution can be challenging 
Organised retail penetration is low in India, estimated at around 8%. India is among the most fragmented retail markets 
globally, with over 12 million to 13 million retail outlets. The largest FMCG player today has a reach of less than 50% of the 
Indian retail market. 
Wide variations in the distribution reach of various FMCG companies has resulted in this being a key competitive advantage, 
and companies are investing heavily to expand their network.
There are various options available for players to reduce investments in developing distribution 
capabilities. However, these are largely relevant for  urban markets
    Distribution alliances with large FMCG companies
   Focussing on modern trade formats such as wellness retail and supermarkets
    Online retail emerging as a popular route to address hitherto unaddressed customers• Merisant India had entered into a distribution arrangement with Nivea for the distribution of Equal tabletop sweeteners 
in India. Similarly, Coty, a global fragrances major, entered into a strategic alliance with domestic FMCG player 
CavinKare for the marketing and distribution of its fragrances. Distribution alliances enable players to gain scale and 
familiarity with the Indian markets and help them build a distribution scale rapidly.
• Wellness retail chains such as Health & Glow, Guardian Lifecare and NewU are expanding their presence in tier-1 
markets in India, and planning to enter select tier-2 cities as well.  
• With modern trade gaining importance in the overall channel mix, manufacturers have appointed exclusive modern 
trade stockists in large towns to service  supermarkets, hypermarkets and wellness retailers. 
• Online retail is gaining prominence in India across consumer categories, including wellness. Brick-and-mortar  
retailers such as Guardian India, NewU and My Nutrition India also have online portals for the retailing of health  
and wellness products. 
• There has been an increase in the number of dedicated online retail sites for wellness, such as HealthKart.com, 
MyNutraMart.com and MedPlusBeauty.com.
• Wellness players like Dabur have also launched online shopping portals for their beauty and wellness products. 
• However, online retailing requires certain distinct capabilities (e.g. Cash on Delivery) and wellness companies have to 
build these capabilities to be able to launch a successful online distribution model.
Source: PwC research and analysis, trade press
24       PwC
Rental cost is among the largest  operating 
expense incurred by wellness service players 
and has a substantial impact on bottomline. 
Rental cost in India can be as high as 20 – 25% 
of revenues.
“One of the factors that amplifies the challenge is 
that unlike global markets where the rentals are 
typically on a carpet area basis, in India it is 
charged on the entire built-up area. This 
consequently results in a higher rent-to-revenue 
ratio compared to global markets ”
Istayak Ansari, COO, Gold’s Gym
Managing rental costs is a key concern among wellness players and they are 
adopting a number of strategies to control rentals
Players are adopting a number of strategies to minimise impact of rental costs on bottom line:
Source: PwC research and analysis, company annual reports and trade pressEfforts to shift from fixed to variable rental models 
• Some large players are opting for newer models such as revenue-sharing models (e.g. Naturals’ salon has 
tied up  with Bharti Retail to set up salons within the latter’s Easy Day outlets on a revenue-sharing basis.)
• However, most players find low acceptance for the revenue-sharing model with landlords, since revenues 
per square foot for wellness formats are currently low and yet to reach their potential.
Optimise retail formats for high rental locations
• Players are aiming for high revenue per square foot by changing their product and service portfolio mix, 
especially for locations with high rentals such as malls.
• Utilising non-service floor space for driving product sales (own brand or multi-brand)
• Realigning retail formats in malls by setting up smaller stores with service offerings which have high 
demand, high throughput and are low complexity.
Store rationalisation
• Larger wellness chains have rationalised their retail footprint and closed stores where revenue potential is 
not in line with store rentals.
• Most players have pre-set limits for rentals in order to keep costs under control.
• Players need to constantly revise and optimise their store portfolio even while balancing their growth 
plans, in order to ensure that revenues, rentals and profitability for each store are aligned with their overall 
business plan.1
2
3
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            25High manpower costs and attrition levels continue to pose a challenge; 
paucity of skilled talent is likely to exacerbate this issue
With high wage inflation, manpower costs continue to be 
significant for wellness operators....
•  The industry has been grappling with high attrition levels – as high as 30 to 
50%. This further increases the strain on company resources in terms of 
training and employee retention costs.
• Players are using incentives such as domestic and international training 
opportunities, support in obtaining sector-specific education or certification 
and incentivised remuneration to manage attrition.
 – Other service industries in India, which share similar sector dynamics, 
are using employee welfare initiatives (health benefits, education 
support, entrepreneurial opportunities) to increase employee retention.
...however, this is symptomatic of the larger challenge around 
the paucity of talent in the industry
• We have previously highlighted the talent crunch that the wellness industry is 
likely to face in the coming years. In 2011, we had estimated that the industry 
will require over 6 lakh skilled personnel till 2016. 
• This continues to be one of the key challenges faced by the wellness sector. 
Training academies by individual industry players and specific courses for 
AYUSH by the Department of AYUSH and IGNOU are insufficient in meeting 
industry requirements. Moreover, the lack of a universally accepted 
accreditation for wellness courses hinders prospective candidates from 
considering this sector as an ‘industry of choice’ for a viable career.  
• It is imperative to encourage private players to develop relevant education 
and training infrastructure, under the aegis and support of government 
institutions such as National Skills Development Agency (NSDA). At the same 
time, accreditation of wellness education and training courses (either 
through alliances with similar global skills development agencies or domestic 
training councils) will provide reassurance to candidates regarding 
employability and relevance in the job market.30%
23%
19%24%22%37%
29%
22% 22%23%42%
26%
18%20%22%
Player 1 Player 2 Player 3 Player 4 Player 5Employee expenses as % of revenue for leading wellness operators 
FY10 FY11 FY12
Source: PwC research and analysis, company annual reports and trade pressDeveloped markets, like  
USA, have a centralised 
agency overseeing 
accreditation of training 
centers to ensure consistent 
qualification standards for 
industry professionals
• The accreditation body in the US, 
National Commission for 
Certifying Agencies (NCCA), has 
certified more than 15 
organisations which offer various 
accredited programs for personal 
trainers, massage therapists, 
dieticians etc.
• For example, the National 
Certification Board for 
Therapeutic Massage and 
Bodywork has 80,000 board 
certified practitioners in the US 
who have undergone minimum 
hours of instruction and 
examinations.

26       PwC
Looking forward
The Indian wellness industry is estimated 
to grow at a CAGR of 15-17% to touch one 
trillion INR in the next 3 years.
Collective action from multiple 
stakeholders to address challenges can 
enable the wellness industry to live up to 
its trillion rupee potential.
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            27The wellness industry is expected to touch 1 trillion INR by 2015, growing at 
CAGR of 15-17%
• The wellness industry is expected to cross 1 trillion INR by 2015, marking a significant milestone for this sector in India.
• However, the challenges that players face to achieve sustained revenue and profit growth (as discussed in this report) can 
stymie the future growth potential of the industry, if unaddressed.
• There have been some corrective measures undertaken by the government, regulatory bodies and industry players. 
However, factors such as low consumer awareness and execution challenges around certification have limited the industry 
from achieving its desired results.
• Collective action from multiple stakeholders such as industry leaders, investors, the government and infrastructure and 
service providers to the wellness industry, can be a panacea for the challenges in the sector and enable it to live up to its 
trillion rupee potential.
Source: PwC analysis* Sum of individual segments may vary from total due to rounding285-290455-490 60 100-115 
170-180270
7-811-12
160-180210-270
2012 2015Beauty care
Fitness and slimmingHealth and wellness food and beverages
Rejuvenation
Alternate TherapyGrowth in the wellness industry (INR billion)
680-720*1050-1150* 15-17%
28       PwCGlossary and Citations
Term Definition 
AHA Alpha hydroxy acid
ASCI Advertising Standards Council of India
c. Close to
CAGR  Compound  annual growth rate 
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 
FMCG Fast moving consumer goods 
FSSAI Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
FY Financial year
H&W F&B Health and Wellness Food and Beverages
IGNOU Indira Gandhi National Open University
INR  Indian national rupee 
MUFA, PUFA Mono unsaturated fatty acid,  poly unsaturated fatty acid
MoT Ministry of Tourism
NABH National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare
NAMS National Advertising Monitoring Service
NCCA National Commission for Certifying Agencies
NSDA National Skills Development Agency 
NSS National Sample Survey Organisation 
R&D Research and development 
SKU Stock-keeping unit 
Tier -1, 2 and 3 cities Cities with a population of 4 million and above, 1 -4 million, and 0.5-1 million, respectively 
Alternate therapy products Medicines and products formulated according to ayurveda, unani, siddha, homeopathy or other 
alternative systems 
Alternate therapy services Services rendered in ayurveda, unani, siddha and homeopathy (AYUSH) treatment centres 
Better for you (BFY) Includes packaged food and beverages where the amount of a substance considered to be less 
healthy (fat, sugar, salt, carbohydrates) has been actively reduced during production
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            29Term Definition 
Colour cosmetics and fragrances Make-up, deodorants and perfumes 
Day spas  Offer a variety of spa by trained professionals on a day-use basis
Destination Spas  Offer all inclusive spa packages that all guests participate in 
Dietary supplements Products intended to supplement the diet by providing additional nutritional substances (e.g. calcium 
supplements, mineral supplements, protein powder). Also includes vitamins, tonics and nutritive 
drinks 
Fitness equipment Includes cardiovascular equipment (e.g. treadmill, stationary bicycles) and weight training equipment 
(e.g. weight lifting machines, barbells) 
Fitness services Includes gymnasiums, dance studios, martial arts, etc.  
Fortified foods and beverages (FFB) Includes packaged food and beverages to which healthy ingredients (e.g. calcium, omega3) have 
been actively added. Health benefit needs to form part of positioning or marketing of the product. 
Hair and skincare products Personal care products for skin and hair 
Hotel and resort spas  Similar to a day spa, but the spa facility is located within a resort or hotel property
Surgical cosmetic treatments Surgical cosmetic procedures (e.g. liposuction, abdominoplasty) 
Meal-replacement slimming 
products Nutritionally fortified, calorie-restricted products consumed as a replacement for a meal  
(e.g. snack bar) 
Naturally healthy (NH) Includes packaged food and beverages which are considered healthy in their natural form (e.g. 100% 
fruit juice, herbal tea, high-fibre food) 
Non-surgical cosmetic treatments Minimally and non-invasive cosmetic procedures (e.g. botox, dermal fillers) 
Rejuvenation  Services rendered in day spas, destination spas and resort spas 
Salons Services rendered in beauty centres including hair cuts, facials, pedicures, manicures and hair  
styling among others  
Slimming products OTC (over-the-counter) drugs and supplements specially formulated and marketed as being suitable 
for individuals who want to lose or control their weight
Slimming services Includes slimming centres which focus on weight loss through combination of machine -based and 
floor exercises, along with diet counselling 
Weight-loss supplements Includes supplements positioned as actively aiding weight loss (e.g. appetite suppressants,  
craving suppressants)
30       PwC
Works cited
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            31
Primary research: Interviews conducted with the following 
• Sandeep Ahuja, MD, VLCC Group
• Istayak Ansari, COO, Gold’s Gym India
• Anant Gawande, CFO, Talwalkars Better Value Fitness Limited
• Anurag Kedia, Director, The Four Fountains Spa, CMYK Health Boutique 
Private Limited
• Vikram Bhatt, Director- Growth and Strategy, Enrich Salons
• Rahul Malhotra, Assistant Vice President, Guardian Life Care Pvt. ltd.
• Siddharth Kothari, Director, JM Financial Investment Managers Limited
• Philipe Haydon, CEO, Pharmaceuticals, The Himalaya Drug Company
Secondary research
• Power of Ideas 2012: Why franchising is growing as a preferred gateway 
to a career in entrepreneurship, Economic Times, 1 February 2013
• Cosmetics makers hide slowdown blues with premium products, The 
Indian Express, 16 August 2012
• Beauty business booms: Olay, Neutrogena, L’Oreal and likes drive sales 
for retailers, Economic Times, 3 July 2013
• IRDA notifies inclusion of ISM under health insurance policies, Pharma 
Biz, May 2013
• Report of Steering Committee On AYUSH For 12th Five Year Plan, 
Health Division Planning Commission Government of India, May 2011
• NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey- Key Indicators of Household 
Consumer Expenditure in India, 2011-12, NSSO, June 2013
• ISAPS International Survey on Aesthetic/Cosmetic Procedures 
Performed in 2011, International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery
• NABH, NSDA, ASCI websites
• World Bank
• Company websites and annual reports 
• Euromonitor 
• Datamonitor 
• ISI Securities 
32       PwCNotes
Imperatives for growth - The wellness industry            33Notes
About FICCI
Established in 1927, FICCI is the largest and oldest apex business organisation in India. Its history is closely  
interwoven with India’s struggle for independence and its subsequent emergence as one of the most rapidly  
growing economies globally.
With a membership of over 500 chambers of commerce, trade associations, industry bodies, FICCI speaks directly 
and indirectly for over 2, 50,000 small, medium and large business units employing around  
20 million people.
FICCI is the rally point for free enterprise in India. It has empowered Indian businesses in the changing times to shore 
up their competitiveness and enhance their global reach.
FICCI plays a leading role in policy debates that are at the forefront of social, economic and political change. FICCI 
works closely with the government on policy issues, enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and expanding business 
opportunities for industry through a range of specialised services and global linkages. It also provides a platform for 
sector-specific consensus building and networking.  
FICCI’s stand on policy issues is sought out by think tanks, governments and academia. Its publications are widely 
read for their in-depth research and policy prescriptions. 
Partnerships with countries across the world carry forward our initiatives in inclusive development, which 
encompass health, education, livelihood, governance, skill development, etc. 
The FICCI head office is located in Delhi. It has eight state offices and six international offices.
Contact  
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)  
33-B, Krishnamai,  
Sir Pochkhanwala Road,  
Worli, Mumbai 400 030  
Phone: 022 2496 8000  
Fax: 022 2496 6631 / 32
About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more 
than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, 
Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.
pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
AcknowledgementsRachna Nath
Leader, Retail and Consumer  
Phone: 022 - 66691539  
E-mail: rachna.nath@in.pwc.comP Rashmi Upadhya
Associate Director, Strategy  
Phone: 080 - 40797051  
E-mail: p.rashmi.upadhya@in.pwc.com
The editorial, research and content team for this knowledge publication consisted of the following individuals
Transaction Services Strategy
• Rashmi Nair
• Lakshmi Yendapalli
• Shreya Srinivasan
• Nakul Gupta
• Rohan Shetty
• Sanjay BhatiaBrand and Communications
• Malvika Singh
• Pallavi Dhingra
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or 
for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 42 - July 2013 Wellness report.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
