Title: pwc_grey-swans-transformation-of-risk-in-an-interconnected-world
Date Published: 2014-01-03 14:33:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_grey-swans-transformation-of-risk-in-an-interconnected-world.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Grey swans: Transformation of risk 
in an interconnected world
www.pwc.in
Risk Management Survey 2013 - India at glance  
Heart of the matter: The grey swan effect  p4/Are Indian organisations seeing the grey 
swans?  p8/Current state of risk management  p10/How prepared are organisations for  
the future?  p14/What this means to your business?  p17/ Appendix: About the Risk 
Management Survey 2013  p20
2 PwC
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    3Sivarama Krishnan  
Executive Director  
PwC IndiaSiddharth Vishwanath  
Executive Director  
PwC India
The risk landscape for organisations the world over and in India is becoming complex. The risks of yesterday 
are extant and new risks have emerged on the horizon. These include risks arising from increasing 
interconnectedness of financial markets, supply chains, information pathways. The threats from disruptive 
technologies, societal shifts and a complex regulatory environment are also adding to the risk landscape. ‘Expect 
the unexpected’ has become the new mantra for organisations. As a result, ‘black swans’ signifying high impact 
but rare risk events are today turning grey, that is, high impact events are less rare. Interconnectedness is also 
leading to cascading effects as one risk event triggers  another with multiplied impact.
So, are Indian organisations seeing the grey swans? We undertook a survey of more than 80 organisations on risk 
management. It revealed that the organisation’s risk management agenda continues to be occupied with the ‘here 
and now’ of risks. The top risks identified by risk professionals do not seem to include key sources of grey swans. 
The focus on ‘here and now’ has also perhaps restricted organisations to see risk management as a key lever 
for ‘value protection’ or ‘value enhancement’. As orgainisations have institutionalised basic risk infrastructure, 
it appears that risk management is largely seen as a cost driven by regulations or good practice as against a 
source of value. Though most respondents to our survey do see value in strengthening risk management and 
also recognise the need to strengthen the risk management infrastructure, surprisingly a majority do not plan to 
increase their investments for strengthening risk management capabilities.
To navigate in the fast evolving risk landscape, organisations need to work on a two-pronged approach, focussed 
on strengthening their current risk management programme and building risk resilience.  While a strong risk 
management programme will help organisations deal with the short term ‘known known’ risk landscape, an 
institutionalised process for building resilience would be key to manage the ‘known unknowns’. 
In this report, we reflect upon the current state of risk management in India through our survey findings in 
the context of the fast changing risk landscape that features many ‘grey swans’. We are delighted to share this 
publication with you and hope you will find it insightful and enjoyable.Foreword
4 PwC
Heart of the matter: The grey 
swan effect
Risk landscape is evolving 
fast with increasing 
uncertainty
In the recent past, large-scale calamities, 
both natural and man-made,  that 
were once thought unlikely, distant, or 
isolated; climate change, food security, 
energy supply volatility, overhaul of 
technology, and a global liquidity crisis, 
have manifested and changed the course 
of business for many organisations. As 
the world evolves continually, a host 
of opportunities arise constantly. With 
them, however, appear new ‘emerging’ 
risks. The  macro-economic environment 
remains challenging and global operating 
models have added a mix of efficiency 
and complexity to virtually every aspect 
of business. Technology continues to 
connect us faster and with more ease, 
but maintaining volumes of data and 
keeping levels of consistency is ever 
harder. Regulatory requirements are 
increasing, both in terms of the sheer 
number of regulations and also in the 
levels of specificity. Consumers are 
better informed and more demanding. 
And competitors, both new and old, are 
looking for ways to expand their market 
share at a time when growth remains 
stagnant at best. All these factors have 
influenced the risk landscape in the past. 
However, in today’s dynamic business 
environment, there seems to emerge 
a regular pattern surrounding these. 
Organisations are finding it increasingly 
difficult to map the fast-paced risk 
landscape.  Increasing 
interconnectedness is leading 
to cascading impacts 
Interconnected financial markets
Financial markets today have become 
more integrated due to the complex 
interplay of various factors such as 
increasing global trade, the growth 
of financial intermediaries across 
geographies, linkages among market 
participants and the changing preference 
of savers and investors for financial 
instruments. As a result, the impact of 
events such as liquidity crunch, interest 
rate fluctuations and volatile commodity 
price risks have grown manifold due to 
the cascading effect across geographies. 
Financial markets in India are continually 
integrating with the global financial 
system. Until the early 1990s, India’s 
financial sector was tightly controlled; 
interest rates were administered, the flow 
of funds was restricted, foreign exchange 
was linked to the basket of currencies 
and the secondary market was dominated 
by government securities. Today, the 
gross capital flows as a percentage of 
GDP stands at around 60% while the net 
capital flows are at about 4% of GDP1.
The global financial crisis in 
2007–08 acted as the trigger for 
debt rolling in the Euro Zone and the 
growth declined sharply.
Starting from Greece and later 
Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy, 
these Euro Zone economies have 
witnessed a downgrade of their 
sovereign debt rating, fears of default 
and a dramatic rise in borrowing 
costs. These developments threaten 
other Euro Zone economies and even 
the future of the Euro. Given the 
large economic weight of the Euro 
Zone in the globe, the widespread 
impact of the crisis across economies 
poses a serious concern to 
organisations across the globe.1. Source: ‘Certain Uncertainties, Uncertain 
Certainties: India in an interconnected world’ 
Harun R Khan, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank  
of India, 07 Oct 2013 
Interconnected 
financial markets
Integrated supply 
chains
Connected information 
sourcesDisruptive technologies
Societal shifts
Changing regulatory 
environmentNew risk 
universe
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    5Integrated supply chains
As the world economy gets more 
connected, organisations look beyond 
their political boundaries to tap new 
markets, leverage cost arbitrage and 
leverage economies of scale to enhance 
competitiveness. They have innovated 
their business and operating models 
to source goods, services, labour and 
material from overseas and service 
international markets. As a result, 
organisations across the globe are 
becoming more and more interconnected 
– global supply chains are now a reality. 
Consequently, any disruption in one part 
of the world now is more likely to impact 
the other regions than ever before.
In September 1999, global 
semiconductor prices nearly 
doubled following an earthquake in 
Taiwan, a key centre for supply of 
semiconductors2. 
Hurricane Katrina when it lashed 
the US Gulf Coast in August 2005, 
the devastation included the supply 
chains of thousands of companies 
that relied on petrochemical 
products as the raw-material sources 
were concentrated in that area.
Indian auto parts manufacturers are 
facing the heat of global automotive 
sector slowdown. Export revenue 
growth of Indian OEMs supplying 
auto parts to Europe has dropped 
from 25%  in 2011-12  to 6% in 
2012-13 due to the slowdown of the 
European auto market3. Brand and reputation risk from 
misuse of social media
In 2013, Burger King’s Twitter 
account was hacked4. The company’s 
picture was changed to a rival 
company’s profile picture. The 
hacked account even displayed an 
announcement that the company 
was sold to this rival.
2. Source: SESHA: Semiconductor Environment 
Safety & Health Association, Report on 
‘Taiwan’s 921 quake and what it means to the 
semiconductor industry’
3. Source: Automotive Component 
Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) 
Annual Report 2012-13, PwC AnalysisInformation interconnectedness
The information that we are generating 
is growing at a phenomenal rate both 
in terms of value as well as volume. It is 
now more easily available and quicker 
than ever before. The internet, mobile, 
various online applications and social 
media channels such as Twitter, YouTube 
and Facebook have accelerated the pace 
at which information pertaining to 
companies, products and services is  made 
available in the public domain. While 
the information and the platform are of 
significant use to the organisation, the 
associated risk of misuse and snowballing 
of negative opinions cannot be ignored.
As the cyber world proliferates and 
organisations increasingly connect 
virtually; methods of breaking into 
systems have multiplied and have 
become more sophisticated, significantly 
increasing the number of cyber incidents 
over the years.4. Source: ‘Burger King Twitter account 
‘hacked’ with McDonald’s logo’, BBC News, 
US. Feb 18, 2013
In 2003, the blackout in North 
East America left 50 million people 
without electricity for about 48 
hours . The sudden breakdown of 
one power station caused a cascade 
of switch-offs of other stations, in 
order to avoid the overloading of 
one station. With the breakdown of 
these power stations, gas stations 
could not pump fuel due to lack of 
electricity. As gas pumps did not 
function, there was an explosion at 
one of the oil refineries, requiring the 
surrounding population to evacuate. 
6. Source: Electricity Consumers resource 
Council, report on ‘The Economic 
impacts of the August 2003 Blackout’ 
<http://www.elcon.org/Documents/
EconomicImpactsOfAugust2003Blackout.pdf> In India, the number of cyber crimes 
reported is expected to increase to 
2636 in 2013 as compared to 288 in 
2008.
Nearly 14,000 websites were hacked by 
cyber criminals till October 2012, an 
increase of nearly 57% from 20095.
5. Source: National Crime Record bureau - 
‘Crime in India’ report, 2012Interconnected risk events
As the business environment is 
turning more complex and dynamic, 
the impact of risk is not limited to a 
specific department, function, business 
unit, organisation or territory. A risk 
originating from one event results in the 
self-amplification of the chain of events. 

6 PwCSocietal shifts: India
Changing customer profile 
Larger and younger: At present, the 
median age in India is 26 years; it is 
projected to be 26.6 years in 2015, 
28 years in 2020 and 29.7 years in 
20257.
Increasing urbanisation
Presently, 30% of India’s 
population lives in urban areas. 
According to the United Nations’ 
World Urbanisation Prospects 
report, the urban population will 
increase at a rate of 2.4% annually 
from 2010 to 20258.
Increasing discretionary 
spending
In India, spending on discretionary 
goods has increased from 45.8% of 
total expenditure in 2000 to 57 .9% 
in 20109.
Rise of nuclear families
Three in five households in India 
are now nuclear with 63% of 
households being nuclear in urban 
areas and 59% in the rural10. 
7. Source: Population Division of the Department 
of Economic and Social Affairs of the United 
Nations Secretariat, World Population 
Prospects: The 2012 Revision,2012, http://esa.
un.org/unpd/wpp/index.htm
8. Source: Population Division of the Department 
of Economic and Social Affairs of the United 
Nations Secretariat, World Population 
Prospects: The 2012 Revision,2012, http://esa.
un.org/unpd/wpp/index.htm 
9. Source: Euromonitor International, Euromonitor 
International from national statistics, 2011, 
http://blog.euromonitor.com/2011/07/regional-
focus-more-discretionary-spending-by-
households-in-asia-pacific.html
10.Source: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, 
Report on ‘National Family Health Survey’, 
2005-06Complex regulatory 
environment 
As businesses today operate in 
networks spanning multiple locations 
and entities, regulatory compliance 
requirements have become more 
complex. The quantum increase in the 
number of regulations an organisation 
has to comply with is further adding 
to this complexity and increasing the 
cost of compliance. The number of 
manufacturing related regulations in the 
US, for instance, has gone up from 2187 
in 2012 to 2302 today. This translates to 
around 2.2 regulations per week11. Since 
1998, there has been a 44% increase in 
the number of regulations affecting the 
manufacturing industry. Regulatory 
costs have increased at an average of 
7.6% per year12.
It is imperative for organisations 
doing business beyond their political 
boundaries to meet regulatory 
compliance requirements at all three 
levels; local, national and international.
11.Source: Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity 
and Innovation (MAPI), report on ‘Macroeconomic 
Impacts of Federal Regulation of the 
Manufacturing Sector’
12.‘Increasing Number of Regulations Challenge 
Manufacturers’, industryweek, Oct 24, 2013 http://
www.industryweek.com/regulations/increasing-
number-regulations-challenge-manufacturersNew emerging risks
Emerging disruptive technologies
An article in Newsweek (1995) that 
discredited the myth of the internet 
stated “The truth is no online database 
will replace your daily newspaper, 
no CD-ROM can take the place of a 
competent teacher and no computer 
network will change the way the 
government works.” Today, the internet 
is addressing all these and more. 
The rate at which new emerging 
technologies are being adopted has 
significantly accelerated.  A case in 
point is the immediate espousal of social 
media by people and organisations. The 
inception of the concept coincided with 
the dawn of the new millennium. What 
started as an easy way to interact with 
people with similar interests and keeping 
in touch with friends, has now turned 
into a powerful tool for organisations 
which if misused, has the potential to 
damage their reputation in real time.
The use of technologies such as 
pervasive computing, enterprise social 
networking and cloud computing, is only 
the tip of the iceberg with relation to the 
emerging risks which can potentially 
complicate the risk landscape. With 
humans investing in legitimate efforts to 
set up a colony in Mars, the canvas has 
just got bigger.
Emerging societal shifts 
Our society has undergone radical shifts 
in various spheres such as demographics, 
urbanisation, family structures and 
behavioural changes. These bring 
along with them new ‘emerging’ risks. 
The closure of the DVD retail chain 
Blockbuster in the US is one such 
example of behavioural change which 
has resulted from the shift in customer 
preference from DVDs to streaming 
services such as Netflix.

Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    7Between 1930 and 2000 eight major financial crisis 
events have occurred. From 2001 till date, there 
have been five incidents of financial collapse across 
the world. 
During 2001-13, five major events impacted the 
energy price volatility as compared to four major 
events from 1930 to 2000.
In summary
Given the changes that have surfaced in the rapidly evolving risk landscape due to increasing interconnectedness 
(e.g. integrated financial markets, information interconnectedness, integrated supply chains),  new ‘emerging’ risks 
(emanating from phenomena such as emerging disruptive technologies and societal shifts) and complex regulatory 
environment, organisations not only have to manage known risks but also have to become better prepared to manage 
grey swans (known unknowns). As a step in this direction, organisations today will have to look beyond their 
traditional approaches of risk management and start building risk resilience into their systems in order to either 
anticipate and respond to or absorb and rebound from the high impact grey swan events. Emerging grey swan effect
In the past, we have seen risks which 
had a large impact, were hard-to-predict 
and were beyond the realm of normal 
expectations; what the philosopher-
epistemologist Nassim Nicholas Taleb 
calls ‘black swans’ in reference to the fact 
that Europeans once believed  all swans 
to be white–until explorers in Australia 
discovered black ones. However, some 
of these large-impact and low-likelihood 
events are now more frequent leading to 
the phenomenon of grey swans.Subprime Mortgage 
Crisis
Global Recession
Russian Financial 
CrisisEuro Zone Crisis
Libya Civil 
War
Great 
DepressionSecondary Banking Crisis
Stock Market Crash
Yom Kippur War
Syria Civil 
WarChinese 
Correction 
Plunge
Iraq 
WarSept 11, 
2001 
Attack
2001- 2013 1991- 2000 1981- 1990 1930- 1980Iranian 
RevolutionBlack 
Monday 
Crash
OPEC 
Formation
Asian Financial Crisis
OPEC Quota IncreaseIran Iraq War
Silver Thursday
Occurs  
Savings and 
Loan CrisisGulf 
WarBlack 
Wednesday
Credit Risk
Market Risk
Liquidity Risk
High Fiscal Deficits
Volatility in Energy PricesCollapse of 
Long-Term 
Capital 
Management

8 PwCAre Indian organisations 
seeing the grey swans?
We observe that globally organisations 
are modifying their risk management 
strategy from internal to external, 
operational to strategic and bottom-up 
to a top-down approach.  PwC’s 16th 
Annual Global CEO Survey titled Dealing 
with disruption – Adapting to survive 
and thrive  provided insights on how senior leadership is actively working 
on effectively tackling the grey swan 
phenomenon. Our Risk Management 
Survey India 2013 reveals that 
organisations are yet to shift their focus 
from ‘ here and now’ risks to ‘grey swan’ 
type of risks.
Divergence in CEO view and 
risk professional view of  
top risks
The Global  CEO survey  reveals that 
Indian CEOs rate the availability of skills, 
inadequacy of basic infrastructure and 
increasing tax burden as the top three risk 
areas. Increasing protectionism by foreign 
governments, bribery and corruption 
and exchange rate volatility are also key 
concern areas. The top three risks as polled by risk 
professionals (Risk Management Survey 
– India, 2013) are regulatory compliance, 
data protection and competition. Forex 
risk and availability of talent are the 
two of the top six CEO key concerns that 
appear on the radar of risk professionals 
and by proxy perhaps the risk 
management programme.
So, is there a divergence 
in what risk management 
programmes deliver 
versus what truly 
concerns CEOs?Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013Q. What are the top 10 risks for your organisation?
43%46%46%49%49%49%51%57%63%71%
Customer retention or  satisfactionCurrency riskBrand and reputationRegulatory changesBusiness process riskRecruiting and retentionMarket share and growthCompetitionData protection and privacyRegulatory and  statutory compliance 
and reporting
Organisations (%) that perceive the risk to be in top 10
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    9
Are organisations occupied 
with the ‘here and now’  of 
risks
The possible emergent areas for 
grey swans in India include political 
uncertainty, emerging disruptive 
technology, natural disasters, etc.  
Surprisingly, these figure on the 
risk radar of a very small number of 
respondents. Only 20% have identified 
political uncertainty, 29% highlighted 
emerging disruptive technology and none 
have marked natural disasters as their 
top risk priorities. Among the top 10 risks 
identified by respondents, currency risk 
is possibly the only risk that could be a 
source of grey swans. Typically most of 
the risks are the ‘here and now’ of risks.The leadership tasked 
with undertaking the 
risk management for the 
organisation is occupied with 
the high predictability areas
Grey swans tend to appear across the 
spectrum of an organisation’s ecosystem. 
The more complex the ecosystem of an 
organisation, more are the grey swans 
that it accosts. Irrespective, it is observed 
that grey swans tend to appear more 
frequently and are likely to be in areas 
where predictability is low or difficult. 
Thus, leading organisations across the 
globe expect their senior leadership to 
concentrate on these areas where there 
exist more ‘known unknowns’.  The 
respondents to the survey did not report a 
focus on these ‘known unknowns’.Key concerns of Indian CEOs 13Key concerns of risk practitioners 14 
81%
75%
75%Availability of 
key skills 
Inadequacy of basic infrastructure
Increasing tax 
burden 77%
74%
74%Protectionist tendencies of national governments
Bribery and
corruption 
Exchange rate volatility71%
63%
57%Regulatory and compliance reporting
Data protection 
and privacy
Competition
13 Source: PwC’s 16th Annual Global CEO Survey titled ‘Dealing with disruption – Adapting to survive and thrive’
14 Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013
10 PwCCurrent state of risk 
management  
Most respondents do not have 
a risk management policy 
embedded in their business 
and operations
While most organisations have a risk 
management policy in place, only 27% 
of the respondents have embedded the 
policy in their business and operations by 
aligning it with their objectives, operating 
procedures and performance measures. 
Do organisations see true 
value in risk management  
in India or is it largely  
driven by regulations?The Companies Act, 2013 and other 
regulatory requirements such as Clause 49 
of the listing agreement or other industry 
specific regulations require organisations 
to have a risk management programme. 
Multinational companies operating in India 
are also largely guided by their group risk 
management policies. 
As mentioned above, only 27% of the 
respondents have the risk management 
policy embedded in the business and 
operations. 
So, do most organisations 
tend to see risk management 
as a cost of compliance rather 
than a real defence in terms 
of ‘value protection’?Q: Do you have a formal risk management policy defined in your organisation? 
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013
62%38%
Risk tolerance defined
Risk tolerance is not defined25%29%46%
Risk tolerance consistently 
applied across the organisation Risk tolerance  defined at the 
board level and communicated across the organisation but not consistently applied Risk tolerance  defined at the board 
level but not communicated across the organisation Q: Do you have risk tolerances defined in your organisation?
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    11Risk tolerance is not 
embedded in business
As volatility and uncertainty in the 
economy increases and exposes 
organisations to risks, the latter have 
also been compelled to think how much 
they can endure in order to achieve their 
objectives. In today’s changing business 
environment, it is important to align 
business strategy with the organisation’s 
risk appetite. As an organisation decides 
on its objectives and its approach to 
achieving strategic goals, it should 
consider the risks involved, and its 
appetite for such risks. It is important 
that the management and board take into 
account the potential impact of changes 
in the organisation’s strategy in light of its 
risk appetite and tolerance levels.
Our survey results revealed that almost 
38% of the organisations surveyed have 
not defined risk tolerances. A further 
46% of the respondent organisations that 
have defined risk tolerances, have not 
communicated it across the organisation.
Eighty four per cent  of the respondents 
do not consistently consider risk tolerance 
at all levels while taking important 
business decisions. 
So, do most organisations 
have a challenge with 
regards to risk-based 
decision-making at all 
levels that is consistent 
to the overall risk appetite of the 
organisation?Lehman had been exceeding 
the firm-wide risk appetite on a 
persistent basis and paid the price15. 
Lehman took excessive risk exposures 
in order to make a profit. In doing so,  
it increased the amount it was 
prepared to lose as a result of its 
investments from 2.3 billion USD to 
4 billion USD. This constituted a 74% 
increase in its risk limits, enacted 
during a declining market. As these 
decisions were not aligned with the 
bank’s overall risk appetite, it lead to  
its failure.
15.Source: Mark Denbeaux, Director, Seton Hall 
Law Center for Policy & Research, ‘Lehman 
Brothers: A License to Fail with other  
People’s Money’
Q: Does your organisation have a 
formal chief risk officer (CRO) or a risk 
management committee?
40%Organisations have 
an independent CRO 
reporting to boardWhile majority of the 
respondents  have risk 
management committees, 
only two-fifths have an 
independent CRO reporting 
to the board
The Enron collapse established that the 
pursuit of profit without commitment 
to good-faith business principles and 
responsible business behaviour comes 
at a high cost to shareholders. The 
global financial crisis in 2008 exposed 
a number of governance-related 
weaknesses and flawed institutional 
structures that resulted in firms’ 
failure to understand the risks they 
were taking. Earlier, the boards were 
relying merely on the risk reports from 
the CEOs and CFOs to form their view 
on the risk profile of the organisation 
and did not pay sufficient attention to 
risk management or set up effective 
structures, such as a dedicated risk 
committee, to facilitate meaningful 
analysis of the firm’s risk exposures 
and to constructively challenge the 
management’s profit-seeking decisions. 
However, boards have realised that 
to achieve a fair understanding of 
the risks, they need to interact with 
the senior executives who are best-
acquainted with the  risks and also have 
an independent custodian or facilitator 
of the risk agenda.
In India, an increasing number 
of organisations have started to 
create a senior executive position 
for facilitating the implementation 
of risk management and a specific 
subcommittee focussed on the risk 
agenda. Sixty-seven per cent of the 
respondent organisations have a risk 
management committee in place. 
However, only 40% of the respondent 
organisations have an independent 
chief risk officer (CRO) reporting to  
the board.
12 PwCResponsibilities for 
managing risks have been 
defined by most respondent 
organisations but not linked 
with performance
Due to the increased focus on business 
performance, organisations usually 
define key performance indicators 
(KPIs) to ensure that boards and the 
top management can regularly review 
the performance of their organisation 
against defined business objectives. 
Organisations with relatively mature 
risk management practices also define 
accountabilities and responsibilities to 
manage risks associated with defined 
business objectives. The conflict between 
achievement of business objectives and 
risk if managed effectively will encourage 
smart risk-taking behaviour across the 
organisation.
Organisations need to encourage risk-
based decision-making. If not linked with 
performance, it will more often than not 
lead to profit-seeking business decisions 
that ignore risks. Our survey reveals that 
only 53% of the respondent organisations 
have accountability and responsibility 
towards risk management defined below 
the executive or audit committee level.  
Further, only in 13% of the respondent 
organisations is effective management 
of risks linked to performance 
measurement.Financial services and 
telecom organisations: 
Ahead of the curve
While a large number of organisations 
(62%) have defined processes for 
regular monitoring of compliance as 
part of their risk management (RM) 
framework, financial services and 
telecom firms perform better than their 
peers. The survey reveals that 88% of the 
respondents from financial services and 
67% of respondent telecom organisations 
have processes defined for continuous 
monitoring of compliance as part of their 
risk management framework.
Q: Do you have a structured process in 
place for the monitoring of compliance to 
a risk management framework? 
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 201322%
16%62%
No ongoing 
monitoring  Ad hoc 
monitoring  Regular 
monitoring Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013Q: For managing risks, are roles and 
responsibilities formally defined in your 
organisation?
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    13Lack of integrated risk 
management tools for 
managing risks effectively
Risk management tools enable the 
management of the risk universe 
and the process to identify, measure, 
evaluate and mitigate risks.  We 
find that 47% of the respondent 
organisations are still using basic 
tools such as MS Excel and Access for 
risk management while only 24% use 
integrated risk management tools for 
managing their risks. The survey also 
reveals that usage of risk management 
tools have gained prominence mostly in 
financial services firms, where 75% of 
the respondents have consistently used 
these tools for managing and reporting 
their risks.Organisations see positive 
risk culture key to further 
improve risk management 
practices
Some organisations are ill-prepared 
to manage risks not because they have 
not implemented risk management 
practices but because the organisation 
could not develop a strong risk 
focussed culture. Such a culture would 
mean that employees know what the 
company stands for, the boundaries 
within which they can operate, and 
that they can discuss and debate openly 
which risks are necessary to be borne 
in order to achieve the company’s long-
term strategic goals. Risk culture forms 
one of the underlying foundations for 
effectively managing risks across the 
organisation. The survey shows that 
27% of the respondent organisations 
consider developing a positive risk 
culture as key to improving risk 
management within the organisation.
Q: How is technology leveraged for managing 
and reporting risks at your organisation today?
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 201327%Developing positive 
risk cultureQ: What can be done to further improve 
existing risk management practices?
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013
14 PwCHow prepared are 
organisations for the future?
Organisations are struggling 
to anticipate and assess 
‘emerging’ risks
The risk landscape has morphed into 
something unrecognisable from what it 
was a decade or two ago. With increasing 
interconnectedness and concentration of 
the global markets, new high-impact risks 
have changed the global risk landscape 31%Difficulties in identifying and responding to 
emerging risks early enoughKey problems faced by organisations today
Organisations using qualitative and quantitative techniquesSource: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013
12%88%
40%13%64%11%
No assessment Organisations
undertaking risk 
assessmentRisk models and advanced 
quantitative techniques
Qualitative and basic 
quantitative techniques
Qualitative techniques
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013significantly and organisations have 
failed to anticipate and assess such 
new ‘emerging’ high-impact risks. The 
survey reveals that almost 31% of the 
respondent organisations feel that 
one of the key problems faced today is 
to identify, assess and respond to the 
emerging risks early enough ensuring  
smooth functioning of business 
operations with minimal disruptions.
Few organisations use advanced risk management techniques
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    15
In order to anticipate and assess 
emerging risks, organisations need 
to regularly perform a thorough scan 
of characteristics and changes in the 
environment in order to identify events 
that may have impacted the organisation’s 
shareholder value in the past or may 
impact it in the future. Advance risk 
models such as scenario planning and 
horizontal scanning processes need to be 
implemented in order to identify specific 
issues of concern and potential future 
issues by tapping information sources that 
are most likely to record the emerging 
stages of an issue’s development.  
Stress-testing is another important 
technique for scenario contingent 
analysis of the risk of an organisation: 
it can help such entities to put in place 
capital contingency measures, develop 
a firm’s risk appetite, drive strategic 
business planning, set risk limits, 
identify portfolios’ vulnerabilities and 
opportunities in terms of risk-return 
trade-offs and determine the optimal 
timing of strategic decisions. The survey 
reveals that of the organisations that 
undertake risk assessment only 11% 
of the respondent organisations use 
advanced quantative techniques for  
risk management.
Scenario planning at Royal 
Dutch Shell 16
The British-Dutch global oil company 
Royal Dutch Shell puts to practice  
advanced techniques such as scenario 
planning as portrayed by six vivid 
tangible scenarios for economic 
growth, oil supply and prices. The 
scenario foresaw a disruption in 
oil supply and production. Shell 
undertook contingency planning, to 
define what the company would do 
if this scenario occurred. As a result, 
when the Yom Kippur War broke out on 
6 October 1973, oil prices quadrupled 
and drivers queued up for gasoline 
in America and in Europe, Shell was 
better prepared than its competitors.69%  
of the organisations 
are planning to keep 
the investments 
towards risk 
management the same 
or marginally increase
Source: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013Key reasons for strengthening risk management in 
your organisationHow do you anticipate the 
level of investment in risk 
management will change at 
your organisation over the 
next three years?Organisations not ready to pay for the value they see in 
strengthening risk management  
The rapidly evolving risk landscape 
and highly uncertain macroeconomic 
environment warrant organisations to 
increase their focus on risk management. 
Sixty per cent of the respondent 
organisations see value in strengthening their risk management capabilities. 
However, 69% of the organisations plan 
to keep their investments at the same 
level or only marginally increase them 
over the next three years to unlock the 
potential value of risk management.60%
6
16 PwCMost organisations  see scope 
for further improvement in risk 
management
While 29% of the organisations feel 
that structures, systems, controls and 
infrastructure required to manage risks need 
to be strengthened, 27% have cited the need 
to develop a positive risk culture across the 
organisation in order to translate their risk 
management practices into action. Twenty-
two per cent of the organisations consider 
that the level or percentage of integration of 
risk management with the business needs to 
be improved in order to encourage risk-based 
decision-making. Sixteen per cent of the 
organisations seem to be satisfied with their 
existing risk management capabilities and 
see no significant changes in the near future.
Organisations seem to recognise the value and the need to improve risk management 
but are unwilling to investSource: PwC Risk Management Survey – India, 2013Q: What can be done to further improve existing risk management practices?
6
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    17What this means to your 
business
In the present day, large impact and low 
likelihood events have become more 
frequent and require organisations 
to think beyond business-as-usual. 
Accordingly, entities and firms need 
to develop a strong risk management 
programme which serves as a key lever 
for value protection rather than just being 
driven by compliance requirements. 
However, just a strong risk management 
programme will not be sufficient for 
organisations to anticipate and prepare 
for grey swans as these programmes 
typically focus on short-term known 
risks. Organisations will also need to 
institutionalise a process to build risk 
resilience and thereby embrace medium 
range scenario planning to identify, 
analyse and plan for disruptive ‘grey 
swans’. 
Strengthening current risk 
management capabilities  
Closer alignment of business and 
risk strategy for better risk reward 
trade-off
Organisations need to align strategy to 
risk imperatives for improved business 
decisions. The risk strategy needs to be 
internally subjected to the organisation’s 
predefined risk appetite and tolerances. 
Thereon the risk strategy needs to  
become integrated within  the decision-
making framework. This will help 
organisations undertake suitable trade-
off decisions between risks and rewards.
Imbuing risk awareness in the 
mind-set, behaviour and overall 
culture of the organisation
A static risk culture focussed on 
compliance to regulatory and internal 
framework will not help organisations 
effectively navigate the evolving 
risk landscape. It is important for 
organisations to focus on building a risk-
aware culture.Stakeholders need to understand that 
risks are not to be avoided, but to be 
proactively identified, understood and 
responded to in alignment with the 
organisation’s business strategy. And 
while doing so, aim to transform risks 
into opportunities.
Leveraging technology for effective 
risk management 
Risk management tools enable the 
management of the risk universe and the 
process to identify, measure, evaluate and 
mitigate risks.  Organisations currently 
using basic tools like spreadsheets for 
risk management need to leverage 
advanced tools for risk identification, 
risk modelling, risk analytics and risk 
management. There are a number of 
sophisticated tools available for risk 
management for industries and for 
functions which can be customised 
to meet the organisations’ specific 
requirements. Expenditure on risk 
management technology needs to be 
seen as an investment where the payoff 
outweighs the expenses. 
Linking risk and performance for 
smart risk-taking
Aligning risks with performance metrics 
enables organisations to improve the 
quality of business decisions and business 
outcomes. Organisations need to ensure 
that risk related indicators are part of 
the strategic plan or the organisational 
scorecard and that relevant metrics 
feed into each individual’s performance 
scorecard or plan. This alignment is 
crucial as this will also set the stage 
for discussions on risk tolerances, risk 
profiling, risk appetites, risk indicators, 
etc. ensuring that in the process the 
organisation’s risk culture  
is strengthened.
18 PwCBuilding risk resilience for 
managing grey swans
Thinking beyond business-as-usual 
to manage new ‘emerging’ risks
Organisations need to  adopt an 
integrated approach that will  consider 
cross-organisational implications 
and impact due to risks. Accordingly, 
organisations will need to go beyond 
traditional risk management and 
look at institutionalising processes to 
address disruptive risks. Ensuring an 
institutionally sound environment to 
mitigate new risks or even looking to turn 
impending risk into opportunity will keep 
organisations ahead of the curve.
Anticipate
AbsorbRespond
ReboundAdapt
Turn crisis to opportunityCustomers Channels SuppliersExternal organisational elements
People Process Technology
Internal organisational elementsBuilding resilienceBuilding risk resilience to prepare 
for grey swans
Managing the ‘grey swan effect’ calls 
for organisations to proactively engage 
with multiple layers of business —
management, customers, strategic 
partners and regulators. Organisations 
need to identify the sources of grey swans 
through an early warning system and 
establish a mechanism to evalute the 
implications of these events and prepare 
adequate responses to  the same to stem 
the downside of the risk and leverage on 
the upside opportunity.
Based on the nature of grey swans, 
organisations will need to put in place 
either an ‘anticipate and respond’ or an 
‘absorb and rebound’ framework. At times, grey swans provide early 
warnings and accordingly, an ‘anticipate 
and respond’ framework (such as in the 
P&G case study) will help organisations 
prepare an appropriate response — 
perhaps even benefit from the event by 
tapping the upside opportunity.
In certain cases, grey swans strike 
organisations without early warnings 
either on account of their nature or 
because the current risk indicators  are 
not adequate or evolved enough to 
identify them beforehand (such as in the 
Ericsson-Nokia case study). In such cases 
organisations need to have the capability 
to absorb the shock and act in order to 
rebound back to business-as-usual and if 
possible create an opportunity out of  
the crises. 

Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    19Case study: P&G - Turning risk into opportunity 
When Hurricane Katrina lashed the US Gulf Coast in August 2005, the devastation engulfed the supply chains of thousands 
of companies that relied on petrochemical products with raw-material sources concentrated in that area. P&G’s supply chain 
accounting for more than half its production in New Orleans was also affected by the calamity. 
How being  risk resilient helped P&G
Any hurricane entering the Gulf of Mexico automatically triggers a series of emergency measures in P&G, including the transfer 
of inventory to distribution centres outside the New Orleans area, the sending of inventory backup tapes to headquarters in 
Cincinnati, Ohio, and the advent of hurricane shutdown procedures.
Risk turning into an opportunity
P&G was the first business back in operation after the disaster with its volume share of the coffee market 6% higher than in the 
pre-Katrina days. P&G’s plans and actions were sufficient to restore operations within a relatively short period of time.
Case study: Ericsson and Nokia - a classic case of supply chain disruption  
On 17 March 2000, lightning struck Philips’s radio frequency chip manufacturing plant in New Mexico.  Fire triggered an 
extensive chain of downstream consequences for large electronic companies, Nokia and Ericsson. Philips was at that time a key 
supplier of radio frequency chips for both Nokia and Ericsson.
Ericsson: Suffered huge losses and withdrawal from the cellphone production market due to many months 
of lost production 
• Slow reactive response
Nokia: Recovered from the disruption and benefitted from Ericsson’s inability to ship high-end models and 
conquered market space 
• Established a sense of urgency, in case the situation would worsen
• Daily monitoring of the production status instead of the previous weekly check after the incident
• Reconfigured its basic phone to accept slightly different chips from suppliers in Japan and the US
• Tied up spare capacity at other Philips’ plants 

20 PwCSurvey respondents: Profile
• Sixty-three per cent respondents 
are public companies while 37% are 
private companies.
• Eighty per cent of the respondents 
are from organisations with annual 
revenues greater than  1,000 crore 
INR.
• The respondents belong to diverse 
industries.
• Sixty per cent of the respondents are 
present in more than 10 states in India.Appendix: About the Risk 
Management Survey 2013
The Risk Management Survey 2013 
conducted by PwC India across a 
section of leading organisations in the 
country examines current state of risk 
management practices and explores 
the preparedness of such entities for 
effectively managing their risks. 
The key areas examined in this survey 
included the following:
• Current risk landscape
• Alignment of risk and business strategy
• Risk governance
• Risk management process for 
identification, assessment, mitigation 
and monitoring of risks
• Use of tools and technology for 
managing risks
• Risk culture
The survey was conducted using a 
structured questionnaire administered 
online. Respondents were invited to 
participate in this survey via emails. The 
results discussed in this report are based 
on responses from participants (risk 
management practitioners) from leading 
organisations across 13 industries. All 
figures and graphics in this report are 
sourced from survey results, unless 
otherwise mentioned. We have received 
over 80 responses to the survey.Respondents: Industry sector wise
Automotive
Retail and consumer
Oil and gas
Financial services
Pharmaceutical
Industrial manufacturing
Respondents: Company turnover wise
Turnover < 100 crore INR
Turnover: 100 crore INR - 1000 crore INR
Turnover > 1000 crore INRHealthcare
Logistics
Agriculture
Technology
Telecom
Others
Grey swans: Transformation of risk in an interconnected world    21
Healthcare
Logistics
Agriculture
Technology
Telecom
Others
AcknowledgementsAbout the authors
Sivarama Krishnan
Sivarama Krishnan  is an Executive Director with the Risk Advisory Services 
practice at PwC India. He has  more than 18 years of experience across risk 
management, strategy formulations and process improvement. 
Siddharth Vishwanath
Siddharth Vishwanath is an Executive Director with the Risk Advisory 
Services practice at PwC India.  He has over 14 years of experience across risk 
management, strategy formulation, financial and operations advisory.
Nicky Sharma
Nicky Sharma is a Principal Consultant at PwC India with over 10 years of 
experience in leading and executing various business strategy, operations and 
risk consulting assignments. 
Ankit Virmani
Ankit Virmani is a Senior Consultant at PwC India with more than six years of 
experience in risk management, process improvement and revenue assurance. 
We would like to take this opportunity to thank all the team members for their contribution to this study report:
Manu Dwivedi, Associate Director 
Srikanth Parthasarathy, Senior Consultant
Anju Ekka, Consultant
AcknowledgementsAbout PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit  
www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity.  
Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Satyavati Berera 
+91 124 330 6011
satyavati.berera@in.pwc.com
Arup Sen
+91 22 6669 1078
arup.sen@in.pwc.com
Harpreet Singh
+91 124 330 6012
harpreet.singh@in.pwc.com
Parin Shah
+91 20 4100 4420
parin.shah@in.pwc.comManpreet Singh Ahuja
+91 124 330 6021
manpreet.singh.ahuja@in.pwc.com
Neeraj Gupta
+91 124 330 6010
p.neeraj.gupta@in.pwc.com
Sanjay Dhawan
+91 80 4079 7003
sanjay.dhawan@in.pwc.comSivarama Krishnan
+91 124 330 6018
sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com
Siddharth  Vishwanath
+91 22  6669 1559
siddharth.vishwanath@in.pwc.com
Tapan Ray    
+91 22 6669 1204
tapan.ray@in.pwc.comContacts
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents 
of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained 
within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited 
liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 129 - December 2013 Grey Swans.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
