Title: pwc_connected-life-210213
Date Published: 2013-02-26 11:33:58+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_connected-life-210213.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Connected Life
The impact of the Connected 
Life over the next five years
www.pwc.in
Contents
The impact of the Connected Life  04 | mHealth: Saving lives and money 05 | 
mEducation: Equipping people for a better future  09 | mAutomotive: Making the roads 
safer and the world a little less hungry  13 | Smart Cities: Tomorrow’s cities today  17
This report was commissioned by the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programmemEducation
Web-based course material should 
be decomposed into small pages that 
can be easily read on small mobile 
screens. When English vocabu -
lary lessons were set up using the 
email and SMS functions of mobile 
phones, the students’ response was 
overwhelmingly positive.
Thornton & Houser
mEducation
The students of the future will demand the 
learning support that is appropriate for their 
situation or context. Nothing more. Nothing 
less. And they want it at the moment the 
need arises. Not sooner. Not later. Mobiles 
will be a key technology to provide that 
learning support.
Dr Marcus Sprecht
Professor at the Open Universiteit Nederland
mHealth
I think the mobile platform is incredibly 
important for the work of NGOs and 
development in general. It allows us to 
expand the reach of the programmes 
we have and create efficiencies within 
them.
Erica Kochi
Unicef’s New York-based Innovation UnitmHealth
The aim is to give the patient a tool to more 
effectively manage their chronic condition, 
so this will minimise the number of times 
they visit their GP and the number of times 
they become quite ill. The direct benefit 
of this is reduced visits to healthcare 
practitioners, reduced costs and fewer 
expensive drugs.
Dr. Victor Higgs
MD, Applied NanodetectorsSmart Cities
Smart meters will revolutionise our 
relationship with energy, bringing 
people closer to it and helping us 
think about it in a more intelligent 
way. This is vital to achieving a 
100% renewable future.
Andy Blackett,
 Head of Metering, Good Energy, UK
Connected life          3
Mobile technology is redefining our lives and making it increasingly connected. From health and education to transportation 
and smarter cities, the proliferation of mobile communication and a connected life is now well established and here to stay.
In this report, we have attempted to give a snapshot of trends that are redefining our lives through mobile technology. The 
instances cited here only scratch the surface of the impact that mobile devices will have on society over the next five years. Our 
findings indicate an exciting future for both developed and developing markets. 
For instance, in developed countries mobile interventions could help cut healthcare costs by 400 billion USD in 2017 , help 
retain 1.8 million students in the education system, save one in nine lives lost in road accidents, and reduce CO2 emissions 
by 27 million tonnes annually. Similarly in developing markets, mobile interventions could help save over a million lives in 
Sub-Saharan Africa, provide education access to 180 million students, save 25 million tonnes of food and encourage over 20 
million commuters to start using public transport.
The GSMA and a number of stakeholders around the world provided valuable inputs to this report. A number of secondary 
data sources were consulted to prepare this snapshot. Our aim is to help generate a dialogue on this important topic and its 
exciting future. Policy makers within the government, civil society, corporations and individuals will no doubt, find areas 
that they would like to explore further.
In preparing this report, the immense benefits from Connected Life have inspired us and our team. We hope this report offers 
a similar glimpse to the reader.
Shashank Tripathi
India Leader, Strategy and ResearchMohammad Chowdhury
India Leader, TelecomSmart Cities
Just as we predicted that Google 
would want to colonise every part 
of African life, the company has now 
launched a prepaid debit card which 
is Near Field Communications (NFC) 
enabled used for purchase of bus fare 
in Nairobi.
TechMtaa.commAutomotive
We are pleased to see that the implementation 
of eCall is becoming a reality in Europe. The 
closure of this eCall tour by a consortium of 
industry partners is an important step towards 
the EU’s objective to have eCall deployed in all 
cars in Europe as soon as possible.
Juhani Jääskeläinen
European Commission
mAutomotive
Connected containers and trucks equipped 
with M2M devices provide service providers 
and customers reliable and timely information 
such as the location, temperature, weight and 
humidity of shipping vessels to ensure asset 
integrity. When anything goes wrong, an alert 
message will be sent, which helps increase 
regulatory compliance and ensure the quality of 
the items especially for perishable goods.
Deutsche Telekom
4 PwC
Over just a few decades, mobile communication has become one of the largest and 
most significant platforms, with six billion connections and transforming the way we 
communicate and access information, entertainment and the internet.
Now, a new wave of connectivity is on the horizon where everyone and everything 
around us that might benefit from a wireless connection will, in fact, have one. We are 
about to see connected cars, buildings, medical monitors, TVs, game consoles and a 
whole range of connected consumer electronics and household appliances. Many of 
these will be connected wirelessly and intelligently, communicating and interacting with 
each other, thereby creating the connected life.
Mobile networks play a pivotal role in the development of the connected life providing 
a scalable, standardised global platform to support the growing demand for intelligent, 
secure connectivity. New connected wireless devices are set to surpass the number 
of mobile handsets over the coming decade and create significant new business 
opportunities for mobile operators, vendors and industry partners. Machina research 
estimates that by 2017, there will be over 10 billion cellular connections.
Ericsson estimates that by 2017, 85 % of world’s population will have 3G coverage, and 
that global data traffic will grow 12-fold by the end of 2018*. This future demand will 
only be satisfied by the continued roll-out of standardised mobile networks including 
the global GSM LTE Mobile Broadband standard. Without continued investment and 
growth in mobile networks and the deployment of multiple connected devices, the socio-
economic benefits of the connected life will not be fulfilled. 
“Beyond connectivity, mobile operators will play a crucial role in working together with 
a range of industry partners in health, automotive, education, smart cities and a range 
of vertical industries to accelerate the launch of valuable connected services,” says Ana 
Tavares Lattibeaudiere, Head of Connected Living, GSMA. Mobile operators have the 
opportunity to generate value beyond basic connectivity through managed connectivity, 
stewardship services and platform innovation.
*Source: Ericsson Mobility Report, November 2012The impact of the Connected LifeChapter 1
GSMA Connected Living programme
Connected life          5
Chapter 2mHealth could save over 1 million lives in Sub-Saharan Africa over the 
next five years
Simple mobile interventions for treatment compliance, medical stock 
availability and healthcare worker adherence could potentially have a 
significant impact on saving lives in Sub-Saharan Africa .
The increased adoption of mHealth solutions could help 
save lives across the entire healthcare delivery chain
Many of these deadly conditions are relatively simple to treat, prevent or contain. SMS 
reminders to check for stock levels at the health centres have shown promising results in 
reducing stock-outs of key combination therapy medications for malaria, TB and HIV. For 
HIV patients, simple weekly text reminders have consistently shown higher adherence 
amongst the patients. TB is a largely curable disease but requires six months of diligent 
adherence to the medication regime. mHealth could help control TB mortalities by ensuring 
treatment compliance through simple SMS reminders. Delivering mobile-assisted awareness 
to pregnant mothers and traditional birth attendants could reduce perinatal and maternal 
mortality by 30%. Pilot programmes that track mobile-usage patterns have been very 
successful in predicting disease outbreaks and in increasing malaria reporting adherence 
from 22% to 93%. Healthcare workers’ adherence to treatment guidelines and reporting 
procedures is another important area where mHealth is focussing on behavioural changes. 
To ensure successful mHealth interventions, mobile penetration needs to increase so that 
both the patients and the mHealth enablers are always connected.HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and pregnancy-related 
conditions account for 3 million deaths in Africa every 
year
In Sub-Saharan Africa, over 1.2 million new-borns and 265,000 mothers die every year. 
One in nine children die before the age of five and over 90% of the world’s estimated 1.2 
million malaria deaths occur here. Tuberculosis (TB) accounts for over 230,000 fatalities 
and close to two-thirds of the world’s HIV infected are in this region. In South Africa, one in 
five adults is HIV-positive and in 2010, about  280,000 South Africans died of HIV/AIDS. In 
fact, it is estimated that over 40% of all deaths among South Africans are HIV/AIDS deaths 
and that over the next five years, 14 million more lives will be lost due to these diseases. 
The vast number of lives lost every year has driven the UN to declare that curbing these 
conditions would represent 3 of the 8 Millennium Development Goals set in 2000.
Simple mobile interventions have shown tremendous 
potential in saving lives
• Mobile Alliance for Maternal Action (MAMA), ensures that health workers and pregnant 
workers share health information through free SMS and calls for information on 
antenatal care, delivery services and child care.
• SIMpill, a medication management system that detects non-compliance of medication 
regimes, uses SMS reminders. Results showed 94% compliance for a TB trial and 92% 
cure rate.
• TxtAlert in South Africa supports HIV patients and their healthcare workers on Anti 
Retroviral Therapy (ART) compliance. The success has been resounding with missed 
appointment rates declining from 27% to 4%. 
• Since 2011, HP in collaboration with Positive Innovation for the Next 
Generation (PING), the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), and mobile network 
provider MASCOM have successfully rolled out a mobile-enabled program that reduced 
government response times to malaria outbreaks from four weeks to three minutes.
mHealth: Saving lives and money
6 PwC
Where will the lives be saved over the next five years?
Connected life          7
OECD countries spend close to 6 trillion USD in 
healthcare costs every year
On an average, OECD countries spend over 3,200 USD per capita on healthcare, which 
amounts to 9.6% of the combined OECD GDP. Healthcare spending has consistently 
outpaced GDP growth rate in most of these nations and is expected to place considerable 
pressure on public expenditure as the government contributes in excess of 70% of total 
healthcare spend. Over 400,000 German senior citizens cannot afford retirement homes 
and one in every 12 appointments are missed in the US. A 2012 survey conducted by 
ComRes for the British Red Cross shows that personal care services for elderly Britons 
have been cut or frozen by two-thirds of local councils since their last local elections. The 
growing incidence of chronic lifestyle-related diseases are adding to this burden with 
the need for complex, ongoing and expensive treatment. Standard & Poor’s has already 
issued a warning in 2012, stating that the rising cost of healthcare is likely to damage the 
creditworthiness of advanced G20 countries within the next decade.
mHealth solutions could improve patient quality of life 
and reduce treatment costs
mHealth programmes are currently one of the most cost-effective ways of providing 
remote  living assistance to aging and chronically ill patients. mHealth programmes 
provide faster response times, integrated record access and considerable ease of use to 
patients. Remote consultation and support is expected to address the growing chronic 
disease management issue by reducing the need for hospitalisation. Proactive  mobile-
based care for patients with sudden health incidents can reduce the number of primary 
and emergency visits by 10%. Mobile technology can also be used for home monitoring,  
thereby reducing the need for face-to-face consultations. This will not only help generate 
elderly care savings of up to 25% but will also improve patient quality of life. Healthcare 
providers can benefit via mobile access to electronic health records which can  reduce the 
administrative burden of hospitals by 20 to 30%. Simple SMS reminders for scheduling 
appointments can help address the problem of missed appointments. In order to achieve 
cost savings of this magnitude, it is critical that healthcare institutions in OECD countries 
not only adopt but also scale up the usage of mHealth services.mHealth could help cut healthcare costs in OECD countries by over 400 
billion USD in 2017 
Providing healthcare services by consulting, monitoring, and providing 
access to patient records remotely through mobile technology will help 
curtail rising healthcare costs significantly.
8 PwC
mHealth interventions are already being deployed in 
pilots and have shown significant cost savings
• Integrated care has been piloted in Valencia, Spain to deliver routine healthcare. 
Initial findings suggest 24% differential in per capita patient cost management.
• The Connected Cardiac Care programme is a home telemonitoring programme for 
heart patients and has resulted in a 48% reduction in rehospitalisation over the five-
year period.
• Findings from the Eddy VNA study indicate that home telehealth interventions drop 
hospitalisation by 55% and reduce emergency visits by 29%.
• mHealth related trials in Nordic countries have shown 50 to 60% reduction in 
hospital nights and rehospitalisation. 
Connected life          9
mEducation: Equipping people for a 
better future In developing regions, mEducation could provide 180 million children 
the opportunity to stay in school over the next five years
mEducation could provide access to educational resources, tools and 
materials anytime and anywhere by leveraging mobile devices to provide 
access to education.
Of the 610 million students enrolled in primary 
education, only 10% are expected to ever enroll in 
secondary education
Literacy levels in most developing countries remain extremely low with 98% of the 
world’s illiterate or semiliterate population residing in these regions. Of the 1 billion 
students expected to enroll in primary education over the next five years, over 220 
million students are expected to drop out during the primary stage  and an additional 
290 million primary graduates are expected to drop out before entering the secondary 
education system. Each year, only about 10 million students enter the secondary system 
against the nearly 100 million who enroll in primary.
mEducation is being used to increase affordable access to 
education for students in developing markets
Access to education remains a critical problem for reasons ranging from insufficient 
school coverage and low household incomes to limitations in the quality of locally 
available material and teachers. The widespread penetration of mobile networks offers a 
powerful platform to improve access to relevant content. mEducation solutions already 
allow thousands of students in China, Bangladesh, South Korea and Indonesia to access 
course content through SMS and audio lessons. An mLearning student saves 86.7% of 
the cost spent by students taking the same training in a traditional classroom. Much 
of this is due to the elimination of the cost and inconvenience of travelling to attend 
courses. Inexpensive personal learning devices like the 35 USD tablet launched in India 
are further improving access to mEducation.Chapter 3
10 PwC
180 million potential dropouts would have access to 
education via mlearning and up to 20 million could be 
retained in the system
The projected increase in mobile data penetration could provide education access to 
almost 180 million dropouts over the next five years as most mobile service providers 
now offer mEducation services.  We estimate that with increasing penetration and 
awareness, around 6–8% of these students could be retained in the education system and 
encouraged to join secondary education. This amounts to almost 9 million primary and 
12 million secondary enrolments over the next five years in these regions.
mEducation has had significant success despite being a 
very new innovation in the market
Multiple pilot programmes and studies have been conducted across the developing 
markets to assess the impact of mEducation on access to education and student 
performance improvement:
• An mLearning service called MoMath, which was introduced in 2009, has delivered 
a 14% improvement in math grades in South Africa.
• Nokia has over 20 million subscribers and 1.5 million  active users for its Mobiledu 
product in China.
• Project ABC in Niger has shown substantial gains in numeracy exam scores along 
with higher impact learning.
• The WorldReader project in Ghana has provided students across multiple grades 
with textbooks through mobiles.
• BYOT e-learning in Nigeria has seen a 30% improvement in students’ academic 
performance with 7% reduction in drop-out rates.Impact of mEducation every year
610 million students are enrolled across primary education
Only 470 million students remain77% +1-2%
140 million drop out23%8 million can be retained in the 
system at this point
67 million graduate from last grade of primary every year
Only 10 million students are enrolling in 
1st grade of secondary15% +5-6%
57 million drop out before enrolling in 
secondary85%4 million can be retained in the 
system at this point
Interventions for improving customisation: engagement, performance and convenience
Mobile phones as access tool SMS & audio lessons Low-priced e-textbooks
Connected life          11
Over 30 million students are expected to drop out of 
school over the next five years
Developed countries are currently facing a considerable number of educational 
challenges. One in four Europeans under the age of 15 attains only the lowest level 
of proficiency in reading. Across most developed countries, 20% of students do not 
attain an upper secondary degree and nearly 50% of the school drop-outs are between 
Grade 3 to Grade 6. This results in a substantial employment disadvantage for these 
dropouts as they often lack the most basic job skills. For example, in the US, despite the 
economic crisis in 2011, there were over 1 million unfilled job vacancies due to the lack 
of skilled labour.
Large-scale rollouts of mobile learning through 
mEducation  initiatives  are already taking place in 
developed countries 
There is a lot of work being done towards improving student engagement and 
customising education for each learner to improve retention. mEducation simplifies 
access to content and experts, and also overcomes the traditional constraints of time 
and location. Of the major mobile application (app), eBook and audiobook stores, at 
least 15–17% of titles are mobile learning apps and there are now major digitisation 
efforts taking place in the UK and US school systems. Korea and Denmark are moving 
to provide mobile education access to all students by 2015, and Turkey is committed to 
rolling out over 15 million tablets by 2016.
Over 1.8 million students (8% of dropouts) could be 
retained across Grades 1 to 10 over the next five years
Over 25 million potential dropouts will have access to mEducation thanks to the 
growing adoption of mobile data services in developed markets. Considering this 
ubiquitous access and the success of a number of mobile learning programmes, we 
anticipate that around 7–8% of these dropouts could be otherwise retained in the 
system and encouraged to graduate from secondary education. This would amount 
to around 1.8 million more skilled and ‘job-ready’ secondary graduates in developed 
nations over the next five years.mEducation could help retain 1.8 million students in the education 
system across developed nations by 2017 
mEducation will enable educators to personalise education solutions for 
individual learners to improve student engagement.
12 PwC
Interventions for improving customisation: engagement, performance and convenience
Mobile phones, tablets 
and laptops as access toolSoftware and interactive 
mediaeBooks and audio lessons for 
convenience
mEducation has various effective performance 
improvement and engagement tools
Multiple studies have been conducted across the developed market to assess the impact of 
mEducation on student performance and retention:
• Apple’s ‘Special Education’ section in the iTunes App Store aims to reach out to over 5 
million school children with cognitive or physical impairments in the US alone.
• Pearson has partnered with various colleges across the US to provide access to courses 
and learning materials.
• At risk secondary students in the US state of Tennessee have succeeded in raising 
graduation rate by 8%, through mEducation plans.
• MoLeNet in the UK, suggest that national in-year retention rates will improve by 8% 
using mEducation.
• Project K-Nect in the US has increased student proficiency rates by 30% by mLearning.
Connected life          13
mAutomotive: Making the roads safer 
and the world a little less hungryFleet telematics could prevent food wastage during transport and 
hence feed a population the size of Kenya every year by 2017
Fleet telematics is the combination of mobile technology and informatics 
that enables monitoring and management of logistics services.
Developing nations waste over 1.1 billion tonnes of food 
every year
In the developing world, over 18 million deaths occur every year due to malnourishment-
related conditions. The primary reason for this food scarcity is not the lack of production 
in these regions, but the wastage of food. Over 40% of the nearly 2.7 billion tonnes of 
food produced in the developing world is wasted every year. Most of this wastage is 
the result of poor infrastructure and food management. Transport and storage-related 
wastage alone contributes to over 240 million tonnes in these regions. This is the 
equivalent of the amount of food that can feed nearly 400 million people every year.
mAutomotive services are already making an impact in 
improving fleet performance in developing markets
In markets such as Asia and Africa, fleet telematics is currently being employed in a 
variety of applications to improve fleet management and goods tracking, especially in 
food transport and cold transport supply chain. The development of fleet telematics is 
dependent on the growth of the breadth and depth of global mobile networks, as well as 
the implementation of complementary in-vehicle connected solutions.
Current mainstream applications include the following:
• Route and travel time optimisation
• Idling and stoppage time reduction
• Checking and managing storage temperature 
• Monitoring vehicle attachments or vehicle doors 
• Observing driver behaviour and performance
mAutomotive solutions could prevent enough wastage to 
feed over 40 million people a year
We estimate that as the potential benefits of fleet telematics gain traction amongst the 
fleet operators and owners, coupled with basic awareness programs, food wastage 
during transport and storage can be reduced by 10–15%, the equivalent of 25 million 
tonnes a year. This much food is sufficient to feed over 40 million people, a 2000-calorie 
diet, every year. A truck using vehicle telematics is expected to save the equivalent of 1 
tonne of food a month through increased efficiencies and performance improvements 
that can be felt across the board.Chapter 4
14 PwC
The key to the impact of fleet telematics lies in wide-
ranging performance benefits
Acknowledging the benefits of fleet telematics, a wide range of companies from across 
the world offer fleet telematics and related services to logistics operators and owners. 
The developing markets’ demand is now being actively serviced through low-price 
telematics solutions costing under 800 USD per vehicle. This service is proving to be 
very attractive to major food cooperatives in India, who are now requesting that fleet 
operators provide them with telematics-enabled tracking. Some well-documented 
performance related improvements are as listed below:
• Journey time reduction by 10–15%
• Maintenance cost reduction by 10–15%
• Fuel cost reduction by 10–15%
• Average reduction in billing cycles by 1–2 weeks
• Reduction in idling and stoppage time by 40–80%.Consumption Retail and 
distributionHandling and 
storage*Production Processing 
and packag ing
* 25 million tonnes of food could be saved every year which can feed:
•	  the entire population of Kenya
•	  two-thirds of the UK
•	  all of Canada12% 16% 22% 23% 23%
Connected life          15
1 in 9 lives lost in road accidents could be saved by mobile-enabled in-car 
emergency call services
In-car emergency call services could broadcast life-saving information such as 
the location of the accident to the nearest emergency-service provider.
Over 85,000 people die every year from road accidents 
across OECD regions
Deaths from road accidents feature as one of the top causes for fatalities in OECD 
countries. Road accident related deaths are primarily caused due to cardiac failure, 
respiratory failure or massive bleeding conditions. Half of these victims die within the 
first hour. In the moments following a major accident, every minute becomes critical 
to saving the victims’ life and therefore the sooner that medically trained help arrives, 
the higher the chances are for survival. This becomes particularly important in the 
case of cardiac failures where every minute of delay reduces the chances of survival by 
around 10%.
mAutomotive services could reduce emergency response 
time by 50% in rural areas and 40% in urban centres
While emergency call services cannot reduce the number of road accidents, they help 
to dramatically reduce the time required to get trained help to an accident scene. 
Once activated after an accident, these applications establish a voice and/or data 
connection directly with the nearest emergency service provider and provide details of 
the accident, such as the time and location via  the use of GPS or triangulation based 
on the nearest mobile towers. Most OECD-based studies indicate that emergency 
response times could be reduced by 40–50% through emergency call services as they 
eliminate the need for the victim or passers-by to actually make the call.
Over 35,000 lives could be saved over the next five years 
through emergency call services
With the EU mandating such services, current adoption patterns in other OECD 
regions and the growing industry awareness around the potential benefits of this 
simple intervention, cars with these embedded services will make up a significant 
portion of new car sales. Most major studies to date support the position that an 
estimated 10% of accident-related fatalities could be reduced through e-call services 
every year. This compelling evidence has prompted the European Commission to 
consider legislation that would make it mandatory for all new cars to be fitted with 
the emergency calling system by 2015. Even in North America, a similar service is now 
available from General Motors via their OnStar services. 
16 PwC
Multiple global studies agree that emergency call services 
could increase the number of lives saved by almost 10%
Multiple studies sponsored by governments as well as large corporations confirm the 
advantages of emergency call services in developed markets:  
• According to the eSafety, and eMerge studies and TRACE studies there could be 
5–12.5% reduction of fatalities due to road accidents through the use of such services.
• The STORM study shows that the emergency calling service could reduce response 
times from 21.2 minutes to 11.7 minutes in rural areas and from 13 minutes to 8 
minutes in urban centres.Typical response time in urban centres
Typical response time in rural areas
Connected life          17
Smart Cities: Tomorrow’s cities today Smart commute interventions could give back commuters a whole a 
week’s worth of time every year
Smart commute interventions such as mobile-based payments, live and 
dynamic transit scheduling, and commute-time updates would encourage a 
large number of people to use public transport.
Mobile interventions could encourage over 20 million 
people to adopt public transport over the next five years
Consensus studies indicate that in heavily congested areas, a 1% reduction in vehicles 
on the road typically reduces commute times by 2–3%. A well-networked transit 
infrastructure involving the ability to track commuters, provide them with up-to-date 
information to plan their commutes and eliminate friction generated through transaction 
delays could encourage 25–30% of commuters to opt for public transit. We estimate 
that such a large movement towards public transit could reduce commute times by as 
much as 30–35%. While mobile penetration in these cities have typically reached near 
saturation, the key to success lies in a concerted effort by the various stakeholders with 
local authorities being the primary enabler.Typical commute times in the largest developing 
market cities are in excess of 90 minutes a day
The 15 largest emerging market cities are home to over 250 million people. In these 
cities, over 160 million spend an average of 90 minutes a day commuting to work 
and back. In 2011, IBM published the results of its annual global ‘commuter pain’ 
survey, which indicated that traffic is one of the largest challenges being faced by 
these cities. Of the 21 cities surveyed, the bottom eight were all from the developing 
world. An overwhelming majority of respondents (in excess of 60%) stated that traffic 
negatively impacted their stress levels, physical health and productivity. The total 
time that is typically spent commuting in these cities adds up to more than three years 
in one’s lifetime.
Mobile-based commute interventions could increase 
adoption of public transport
Commute interventions using mobile technologies have the potential to improve 
the quality of public transport in these cities. Dynamic scheduling of buses based on 
commuter movement and density could drastically reduce the movement of empty 
buses clogging up traffic during peak hours. Mobile payments could eliminate queue-
waiting times, and provision of real-time updates and schedules could encourage 
more commuters to use public transport. NFC technology could eliminate the need 
for special equipment to accept payments from a wide range of options such as 
phones or even smart cards.Chapter 5
18 PwC
Mobile technologies are expected to play an increasingly 
important role in public transport adoption and traffic 
management
• A 2012 study by MIT, Central South University in China, the University of California 
at Berkeley and the Austrian Institute of Technology using data from drivers’ 
cell phones states that the strategic elimination of only 1% of drivers from select 
neighborhoods during rush hour would reduce travel times within a city by as much 
as 18%.
• Only last month, China has pledged to boost urban transport and is encouraging 
mobile payment systems to increase ridership in all its major cities.
• Indian railways has launched a ticket-booking app for mobile phones and has 
authorised the use of SMS as the ticket itself. There are several test projects to roll 
similar technology out for metro and bus services.
• Google has recently entered the Kenyan market with its NFC enabled ‘beba’ travel 
card that could be swiped against smartphones.What is the value of the time saved commuting?
Three years 
of collegeMaster any skill 
of your choice180  hours Every year Over a lifetime
Over a hundred 
football games
A month’s 
worth of work
Connected life          19
In major cities across the developed world, smart metering could 
reduce carbon emissions offset by over 1.2 billion trees
Smart meters record the consumption of electricity in regular intervals 
and use mobile networks to transmit that information at least daily for 
monitoring and billing purposes.
It would take the equivalent of 16 billion trees to offset 
the amount of carbon emissions from the top 50 OECD 
cities
Cities are centres of commerce, trade and industry around the world, resulting in large 
population clusters. In fact over 80% of the population of the major OECD countries 
reside in urban centers and while cities may be considered the ‘lands of opportunity’, 
they are also the most taxing on the environment. Cities contribute to over 80% of direct 
and indirect carbon emissions, with households alone contributing to around 25%. 
Today, the 50 largest cities in the OECD region emit over 735 million tonnes of CO2 
every year.
Domestic smart meters have the potential to reduce the 
carbon footprint of households
Both people and the environment could benefit from smart meter technology. Unlike 
more conventional home energy monitors, smart meters gather data for remote 
reporting of energy, water or gas usage. They primarily differ from traditional meters in 
their ability to enable two-way communications between a meter and its service provider. 
Furthermore, the additional benefits of ‘remote cut-off’ and ‘start-up’ that could prevent 
idle-time energy wastage, especially during cold months and ‘time of use’ pricing, makes 
smart meters a good investment for people who do not consume much power during 
peak hours. 
In developed markets, over 100 million smart meters will 
be installed in the next five years  
Smart metering in the developed world is really beginning to take off. In the Australian 
state of Victoria, smart meters are being rolled to over 2.6 million electricity customers 
and in Canada, 7 million households already use smart meters. A similar increase could 
be seen in the US, where smart meter adoption has gone from 6% to over 30%, in only 
three years to a total of 27 million smart meters and an estimated additional 38 million 
will be installed by 2015. In Europe, the UK plans to have smart meters in all homes by 
2020 and a further 11 more European countries aim to be 100% smart meter compliant 
by 2019. It is anticipated that by 2017, the adoption of smart meters in the top 50 OECD 
cities, will help reduce household energy consumption by 3.5% or the equivalent of 27 
million tonnes of CO2.
20 PwC
Smart meters can relieve stress on the grid and reduce 
consumer electricity bills considerably
Smart meters are now considered to be very useful utilities for reducing energy 
consumption. Various studies have been conducted and they support the need for 
smart meters:
• The 2008 GridWise trial in the US concluded that smart meters could reduce 
utility bills by 5–15%.
• The Galvin Electricity Initiative, which has been monitoring smart meter-related 
cost savings across the US, indicates that dynamic pricing in some instances 
could be around 27–30% cheaper than retail pricing of energy.
• A pilot program in the US state of Oklahoma, was recently funded by 
the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and a 15-year, 14.2 USD million 
energy savings performance contract. 27  million 
tonnes of CO2
1.2  billion 
trees5000-
6000  sq km 
of forests50-60  
times Barcelona  ==
==
Connected life          21
Methodology
Initial shortlisting of region-specific interventions and their key areas 
of impact
This research report aims to capture the socioeconomic impact of a connected life for developed and 
developing markets. As part of our research, we looked at the four services of the ‘Connected Living’ program: 
mHealth, mEducation, mAutomotive and Smart Cities. 
We shortlisted a series of potential region-specific interventions based on the following filters:
• Address key burning needs that affect us on a large scale
• Have a measurable impact by 2017
• Have some degree of adoption in the existing market
Based on our filtering criteria, we arrived at four interventions for developed markets and four more 
interventions for developing markets.
Capturing data and developing impact models
We created a master pool of data to capture the relevant data points by country (or the region wherever 
applicable) from standard global knowledge sources (e.g. WHO, UN and World Bank). We then identified 
a series of case studies, research outcomes, and pilot programs that have been able to arrive at quantifiable 
conclusions on the impact of each intervention. 
Based on the impact evidence was organised to provide regional impact data sets and country clusters with 
similar impact levels based on current conditions and mobile penetration levels. These clusters and the 
impact of these interventions were consolidated to arrive at the first set of conclusions. These conclusions 
were then tested by altering the various impact metrics to arrive at optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. 
Another series of test conducted involved the introduction of error variables to determine the sensitivity of 
these models. 
Arriving at projections
The models have been designed such that the impact of each intervention is estimated on existing projections 
of impact areas. For instance, in case of our mHealth – developed markets analysis, we used the OECD Health 
Indicator report as the basis for analysing our impact on projected spends . Based on this impact, we have 
arrived at our conclusion for each of the eight topics of research.
Approach
Master data Need for mobile 
interventionRegion analysis Impact evidence Scenario analysis Output
Identifying relevant data 
pointsData analysis to establish 
realityClustering within developed 
and developingFinalise case studies 
and impacts deliveredParameters varied to 
identify various scenariosExample:
Public sources of 
data like World Bank, 
UNESCO, OECD 
database etc. were used.Places where possible 
mobile interventions can 
create a positive impact 
were identified.Study specific regions 
in both  developed and 
developing markets. 
Consolidate multiple 
regions if applicable.Identify relevant case 
studies and pilot 
programs utilising 
mobile technologies 
for each relevant topic. Develop impact 
parameters based on 
case studies and pilots. 
Develop the impact 
model and identify 
impact of outcomes.One in nine lives lost 
in road accidents 
could be saved by 
mobile-enabled in-car 
emergency services.
Methodology to identify socioeconomic impact for each connected life service covered
22 PwC
References
mHealth
OECD Report: Health at a Glance 2011, OECD Indicators (2011)
BCG Telenor: The Socio Economic Impact of Mobile Health (Apr 2012)
GSMA-McKinsey: mHealth: A new vision for healthcare 
Connected Cardio Care: http://www.connected-health.org/programs/cardiac-care/center-for-connected-health-initiatives/
connected-cardiac-care.aspx
Robert E Litan: Vital signs via broadband: Remote health monitoring transmits savings, enhances lives (2008)
IRD: mHealth to Improve TB Care (May 2012)
GlaxoSmithKline: Mobile for Malaria 
The Cochrane Collaboration: Mobile phone text messaging for promoting adherence to antiretroviral therapy in patients with HIV 
infection (2012)
Actevis Consulting Group: Scaling up Mobile health (Dec 2011)
mAutomotive
SMART Study: Impact assessment on the introduction of the eCall service in all new type-approved vehicles in Europe, including 
liability/legal issues (2008)
eIMPACT: Socio-economic impact assessment of stand-alone and co-operative intelligent vehicle safety systems (IVSS) in Europe 
(2008)
SEISS Study: Exploratory study on the potential socio-economic impact of the introduction of intelligent safety systems in road 
vehicles
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (UNFAO) (2006- 2011)
UNFAO: Global food losses and food waste (2011): http://www.fao.org/docrep/014/mb060e/mb060e00.pdf
World Bank: Missing food: The Case of Postharvest Grain Losses in Sub-Saharan Africa (2011) http://siteresources.worldbank.
org/INTARD/Resources/MissingFoods10_web.pdf
Vodafone: Connected Agriculture (2011) http://www.vodafone.com/content/dam/vodafone/about/sustainability/2011/pdf/
connected_agriculture.pdf
Souther Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) - http://www.sagcot.com
Packaging and Films Association - Frequently Asked Questions - http://www.pafa.org.uk/attachments/article/28/
Sustainable%20Plastic%20packaging%20Leaflet%208pp.pdf
http://www.Foodlogistics.com 
mEducation
UNESCO education indicators: (2006-12)
Ambient Insight: The Worldwide Market for Mobile Learning Products and Services: 2010-2015 Forecast and Analysis
McKinsey and GSMA: Transforming learning through mEducation (2010)
IBM: Smarter Education – Building the foundations of economic success (2012)
GSMA: Mobile education landscape report (2011)
GSMA: mLearning: A platform for educational opportunities at the base of the pyramid (2010)
UNESCO & Nokia: Turning on mobile learning > Illustrative initiatives and policy implications (2012)
Smart Cities
Pike Research: Smart meters in Europe (2012)
Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning common rules for the internal market in 
electricity (2009 )
IMS Research: The world market for smart meters (2010)
Department of Energy and Climate Change: Smarter grids: The opportunity (2009)
IBM Report: A vision for smarter cities (2009)
CNET: “GridWise trial finds ‘smart grids’ cut electricity bills” (2008) http://news.cnet.com/8301-11128_3-9847236-54.html
Seimens Green City Indes (2012) - http://www.siemens.com/entry/cc/en/greencityindex.htm
New Cities Foundation: Connected commuting (2012)  http://www.newcitiesfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/New-Cities-
Foundation-Connected-Commuting-Full-Report.pdf
United Nations Statistics Division: Demographic and Social Statistics 
Schechtner, González, Wang, Bayen and Hunter, “Congestion can be alleviated throughout a metropolitan area by altering the 
trips of drivers in specific neighborhood” (Scientific Reports December, 2012)
Contacts
Shashank Tripathi
India Leader - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 98196 78900
Email: shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.comMohammad Chowdhury
India Leader - Telecom
Phone:+91 9167665544
Email: mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.com
David Wijeratne
Associate Director - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9818966775
Email: david.wijeratne@in.pwc.comMadhu Varshitt YS
Principal Consultant - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9769721412
Email: madhu.varshitt.ys@in.pwc.com
Mayank Sankar Nayak
Consultant – Telecom
Phone:+91 9867464488
Email: mayank.s.nayak@in.pwc.comRuchika Agrawal
Consultant – Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9167667550
Email: ruchika.agrawal@in.pwc.comAbout PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.
pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. 
Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
    facebook.com/PwCIndia 
    twitter.com/PwC_IN
   linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
         youtube.com/pwc
pwc.in
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the 
information contained in this publication without obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy 
or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept no liability, 
and disclaim all responsibility, for the consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in reliance on the information contained in this publication or for 
any decision based on it. Without prior permission of PwCPL, this publication may not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to in any documents.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 459- February 2013 Connected life.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
