Title: pwc_exploring-new-horizons
Date Published: 2013-12-11 12:05:02+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_exploring-new-horizons.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Exploring new horizons
Financial percolation to  
the ‘rurban’
www.pwc.in
Contents  
Setting the context  p4/Financial percolation to the ‘rurban’ p6/ Exploring various 
business models p10/ The chosen path p16

2 PwC
Exploring new horizons       3Chairman’s message 
The history of our times will be remembered as one of the most challenging 
phases for the financial services industry. Given the constantly changing business 
environment, with frequent changes in regulations, the industry is struggling to 
build sustainable models.
Penetration of financial products and services has remained concentrated in 
the metros and Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities, without percolating down to the smaller 
towns and cities and the rural belt. The good news is that while there is a huge 
need for services in these segments, it is just that these customers are not aware 
of the right products and the right channel to leverage for the products. It has 
been observed that in most cases, it is the product which is the success factor for 
building up a resilient business model in these areas. 
A well-acknowledged fact is that technology is needed to scale up operations 
in these rural markets. Market players need to capitalise on the benefits that 
technology has to offer, making investments in the right pockets of opportunity. 
The cost-benefit analysis of using technology as a facilitator and enabler needs to 
be pushed out to customers and market players alike.
It is also important for this industry to invest in the right partnerships or 
alliances to move forward with long strides. Partnering with industries such as 
telecom or FMCG should be a well-thought out strategic decision to penetrate 
un-banked areas. 
All stakeholders, the banks, insurance companies, NBFCs, mutual fund 
companies, regulator, government, last mile agents need to work in tandem to 
build a sustainable distribution chain. 
There are significant learnings from other countries that can be replicated in the 
Indian market. These need to be critically assessed and built upon to take the 
growth of the financial services industry to the next level. 
Mr C Jayaram
Chairman - CII 2nd Financial Distribution Summit 2013 
and Joint Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.

4 PwCThe 2011 Census data for India states 
‘unacknowledged urbanisation’ as one 
of its major findings. It threw interesting 
results, forcing policymakers and industry 
experts to take notice of shifting urban 
patterns.
‘Census towns’, a term coined to explain 
hitherto ignored urbanisation trends 
accounts for almost 30% of the urban 
growth in the last decade, with large 
inter-state variations. A ‘census town’ 
is categorised so because farming has 
been entirely replaced with other formal 
or informal sources of livelihood with 
75% or more of the male population 
depending on non-agricultural sources of 
livelihood. Interestingly, between 2001 
and 2011, India added about 2,500 such 
towns, earlier classified as large villages, 
to the urban growth story. The validity 
of such ground-breaking data forces us 
to re-examine the stark demarcations 
of ‘rural’ and ‘urban’, accepting the 
prominently present ‘rurban’ regions. This 
acknowledgement of previously ignored 
spurious urban growth promises major 
policy implications. 
The growth experienced by such towns and 
the ‘rurban’ region of India has been rapid 
and haphazard, unevenly spread across the 
country’s topography. In fact, two-thirds 
of this region is concentrated in just six 
states--West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, 
Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra 
Pradesh, in that order. 
If the geographical spread intrigues, 
the characteristics associated with such 
spurious growth are astounding. Rural 
income grew at a much faster pace 
between 2010 and 2012 than in previous 
years, according to the provisional results 
of the 68th round of the consumption 
expenditure survey by the National Sample 
Survey Office (NSSO). While the average 
annual growth in monthly per capita 
consumption expenditure (MPCE) between 
2005 and 2010 in real terms stood at 1.4% 
as per the 66th round of the survey, it grew 
by around 9% between 2010 and 2012. 
In value terms, the rural MPCE picked 
up from 927.7 INR in the 66th round 
to 1,281.45 INR in the 68th round. The 
income gap between rural and urban India 
is declining. While the 66th round survey 
carried out in 2009-10 showed that the 
MPCE in urban India was double (100.3%) 
than that in rural areas, it came down to 
92.3% in the 68th round survey. Rising income levels coupled with a 
surge in consumer awareness translate 
to higher spending levels and disposable 
incomes. Massive urbanisation will result 
in the increase in disposable income from 
about 40,000 INR in 2010 to 78,000 INR 
by 2016. This is likely to result in higher 
consumption and needs for financial 
products in order to enhance savings and 
investments. Non-agricultural sources 
of livelihood translate to a steady flow 
of funds leading to increased savings. 
These need to be channelised and hence 
the demand for varied financial products 
beyond the metros.
The increased consumption of lifestyle 
products and the ability to ape ‘urban’ 
lifestyle has led to shifting demand 
patterns. A variety of goods ranging from 
smartphones to automobiles and various 
electronic gadgets are now commonplace 
in rural India. 
‘Is India’s manufacturing sector moving 
away from cities’?, a study conducted 
by Ejaz Ghani for Harvard Business 
School details the urbanisation of India’s 
manufacturing sector. He observed that 
while small informal industries were 
moving from rural areas to cities, formal 
industrial sector units were shifting to the 
rural areas. Examples include Nokia and 
Hyundai.What do these phenomena 
have in store for the financial 
sector? 
The good news is that a considerable 
amount of unchannelised savings exists 
beyond the metros in semi-urban and 
rural areas. Financial institutions are yet 
to explore these markets and translate the 
savings of these people into strong wallet 
share for themselves. 
Penetration in rural and semi-urban 
markets has till now been largely driven by 
the regulator and the government. Though, 
never before has financial percolation 
seemed more economically viable, multiple 
roadblocks exist in these regions in terms 
of inadequate infrastructure, low levels 
of financial literacy and lack of strong 
distribution channels. Financial providers 
do not seem to identify any viable 
opportunities from tapping these markets, 
given the cost of   reaching the rural areas. 
To address this, a change in mindset that 
perceives financial inclusion as a profitable 
business model and not just as a social 
obligation is required.
Rural and semi-urban financial services is 
the fastest growing financial services sector 
with a potential of approximately 78,000 
crore INR in revenues by 2015. This could 
potentially mean banking 700 million 
people by developing innovative and 
profitable operating models to fuel further 
growth. In addition, products need to be 
tailored to suit the needs of these groups 
and their associated peculiarities.  
Products sold in the urban markets 
cannot be replicated in these markets. A 
considerable amount of investment is also 
required in choosing the correct agent or 
agent network to access these markets and 
then training them. Setting the context
Exploring new horizons       5
The curve ahead
While the financial sector needs to gauge 
the existing opportunity appropriately, 
the onus also lies with the regulator and 
government policies to clear roadblocks 
associated with infrastructure and various 
other restrictions that often lead to a 
lukewarm response. The industry today 
needs to take a step back and think how it 
can make inroads into the rural market and 
make its distribution model sustainable in 
the long-term.
Financial inclusion is a huge project 
and cannot be undertaken by a single 
provider working on its own. Partnerships 
and alliances are necessary in order to 
collaborate and seek answers to reach 
the unbanked. Banks and other financial 
providers will need to partner with 
technology service providers, mobile 
operators, FMCG companies, postal 
department, or will need to identify 
other alliances which could work out a 
viable revenue-sharing model. In fact, 
a series of such models can be modified 
on a continual basis to tweak peculiar 
topographical or socio-economic 
constraints.  This partnership 
channel should be used 
not only to provide 
remittances, but should 
gradually progress to 
offer credit, pensions, 
insurance and savings 
products to drive value 
in the distribution 
chain.
6 PwCCountry name % of adults 
having an 
account at a 
formal financial 
institution% of adults 
using mobile 
money in the 
last year % of adults who 
have taken a loan 
from a formal 
financial institution 
in the past year % of adults who have 
taken a loan from 
family or friends in the 
past year % of 
adults 
with a 
credit 
card% of adults 
paying 
personally for 
health insurance 
Brazil 56 1 6 16 29 8
China 64 2 7 25 8 47
India 35 4 8 20 2 7
Indonesia 20 1 9 42 0 1
Japan 96 - 6 5 64 -
Kenya 42 68 10 58 6 5
Mexico 27 6 8 15 13 8
South Africa 54 11 9 34 8 7
UK 97 - 12 14 52 -
US 88 - 20 17 62 -
 
Global Findex Database, 2011
The term ‘financial inclusion’ propels 
ambiguity and measuring the depth 
and coverage of percolation might be a 
hurdle. It is apparent that the financially 
excluded constitute a significant share 
of the population especially among low-
income groups. The All India Rural Credit 
Survey (AIDIS) 2002 survey, showed that 
111.5 million households had no access to 
formal credit and 17 million households 
were indebted to moneylenders. The 
recent Arjun Sengupta Report on financing 
enterprises in the unorganised sector 
has pointed out that only 2.4 million out 
of 58 million units in this sector (with 
an investment of less than 25,000 INR) 
have received credit from commercial 
banks. The 2002 survey also showed 
that lower the asset class, income and 
place of residence, higher the degree of 
exclusion. The Invest India Incomes and 
Savings Survey (2007) survey showed 
that 32.8% of households had borrowed 
from institutional sources and 67.2 % had 
borrowed from non-institutional sources. 
There is hence clearly a section of the 
population that lacks access to finance and 
is crowded out of the credit markets. The 
regulator, government and the industry 
players need to reinforce their  efforts 
to improve financial access, especially 
for small businesses and individual 
households. As the first three years of 
the Financial Inclusion Plan (April 2010 
to March 2013) come to an end, here’s a 
snapshot of the progress made:Financial percolation to the ‘rurban’
•	 Banking outlets in villages have 
increased to nearly 2,68,000 from 
67,694 outlets in March 2010.
•	 About 7,400 rural branches have been 
opened during this three-year period 
compared to a reduction of about 
1,300 rural branches in the last two 
decades.
•	 Nearly 109 million basic savings bank 
deposit accounts (BSBDAs) have 
been added, taking the total number 
of BSBDA to 182 million. The share 
of ICT-based accounts has increased 
substantially. The percentage of ICT 
accounts to total BSBDAs increasing 
from 25% in March 2010 to 45% in 
March 2013.
•	 With the addition of nearly 9.48 
million farm sector households during 
this period, 33.8 million households 
have been provided with small 
entrepreneurial credit as at the end of 
March 2013.
•	 With the addition of nearly 2.24 
million non-farm sector households 
during this period, 3.6 million 
households have been provided with 
small entrepreneurial credit as at the 
end of March 2013.
However, future financial inclusion plans 
need to address major issues, financially 
viable regulations that attract private 
investors promoting percolation beyond 
the mandatory limits and seamless 
functioning of the regulators and the 
stakeholders.•	In India, only 55% of 
the population have 
deposit accounts
•	Nine per cent have 
credit accounts with 
banks
•	145 million 
households are 
excluded from banking
•	Only 18% have debit 
cards
•	Less than 2% have 
credit cards
•	Less than 20% of the 
population has any 
kind of life insurance 
and 9.6% of the 
population has non-
life insurance coverage
Exploring new horizons       7The Insurance Bill, AADHAR, 
cash transfers: 2013, the year 
that was
Although 320 million AADHAR cards have 
been issued, less than 10 million accounts 
have been linked. This has far outstripped 
the bank accounts. Such banking glitches 
would mean a huge roadblock to the 
success of the Unique Identity Programme 
and resultantly Direct Cash Transfers. 
State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) 
Convenor Banks were advised to co-
ordinate with government functionaries for 
the implementation of Aadhaar-enabled 
payments. 
Banks need to expedite the process of 
opening bank accounts in camp mode 
and seeding of accounts with Aadhaar 
numbers. The status of the roll-out of 
Aadhaar-enabled payments is a regular 
agenda item for discussion in SLBC 
meetings as part of financial inclusion 
and Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) 
implementation. The Direct Benefit 
Transfer was rolled-out in 43 districts in 
the first phase from 1 January 2013, and 
has been extended to 78 districts from 1 
July 2013. 
However, the pace at which such benefits 
are being extended indicate the need to 
pace the process of financial percolation. 
The 2006 Annual Policy witnessed the 
term ‘financial inclusion’ for the first 
time ever, asking banks to open ‘no-frills 
accounts’ for all those wanting access to 
a bank account. Along with rural credit 
and equitable access to it, we also need to 
consider the insurance sector. 
Increasing the FDI limit of 49% in domestic 
insurance companies from the earlier 26% 
will boost employment opportunities, 
sends a positive signal to overseas investors 
and will help India rein in the current 
account deficit in the short-run. The 
insurance sector needs a capital infusion 
of up to 51,500 crore INR over the next 
five years, with the life insurance industry 
requiring 41,000 crore INR and general 
insurance companies 10,500 crore INR. 
Such infusion will help the industry benefit 
from the variations in scale and increase 
the insurance cover beyond the metros. 
What we need from the regulator is a mid-
way approach that addresses customer 
concerns while keeping a tab on profit 
margins. Squeezing the sector of its profit 
share will lead the percolation process to 
collapse, doing more harm than good to 
consumers.Initiatives taken by the 
government and the regulator
The Indian financial system has been 
characterised by a dual formal-informal 
structure giving rise to a gap that promotes 
‘the grey’. Nominal interest rates have been 
tightly regulated for decades leading to 
arbitrage profits through trading these in 
the informal system. How for instance, are 
microfinance institutions which charge 
interest rates of around 26% per annum 
any better than moneylenders? Several 
such concerns translate to only 35% of 
Indians above 15 years of age having an 
account at a formal financial institution. 
The rural-urban distribution is quite 
skewed with 33% of rural Indians and 40% 
of urban residents having an account with 
a formal institute. To achieve universal 
coverage and reach the maximum 
unbanked adults, the government and the 
regulator have taken a few initiatives. 
•	 The first FIP has seen about 24,701 
rural branches, 1,20,355 BC outlets, 
2,478 other modes, 103.21 million 
total of ‘no-frill accounts’ registering 
an increase of 39.6% in NFAs. (2011-
2012). Other figures that point 
towards increased penetration on the 
rurban include 932.89 billion INR 
of outstanding balance, 3.39 billion 
INR of overdrafts, 119.77 million 
transactions through ICT-based BC 
outlets, 2.15 million INR in KCC credit 
and 0.22 million GCC INR in credit as 
recorded on 31 March 2012.•	 According to the World Bank’s Global 
Financial Inclusion Index (Global 
Findex) database, only 26% of women 
in India admit to having a bank 
account. Per capita credit in the case 
of women is 80% lower than in the 
case of men. The Bharatiya Mahila 
Bank is thus a welcome initiative that 
predominantly serves women and 
hopes to achieve a more equitable 
form of financial distribution.
•	 The government has made financial 
percolation to the rurban and 
universal financial coverage a 
development policy priority. The RBI 
has on 23 September 2013 announced 
a 13-member committee to develop a 
comprehensive monitoring framework 
to track the progress of financial 
inclusion and deepening efforts on a 
nationwide basis. The Committee on 
Comprehensive Financial Services for 
Small Businesses and Low-Income 
Households includes representatives 
from leading industry players, 
RBI directors and government 
representatives. It will review existing 
strategies and develop new ones 
that address specific barriers to 
progress and encourage participants 
to work swiftly towards achieving full 
inclusion and financial deepening, 
consistent with design principles while 
developing viable business models for 
executing these strategies.

8 PwCRural credit across states
Commercial banks and institutions need to 
treat the process of financial inclusion as a 
viable and (potentially) profit-generating 
business model.  Currently, Indian banks 
are required to give 40% of their loans to 
weaker sections of society and farmers, 
among others. To achieve these twin goals, 
it is crucial to dissect the diverse nature of 
rural credit dispersion across states. 
RBI data on rural credit outstanding for 
each district in the country is astounding. 
Although for Bihar as a whole, rural credit 
outstanding per capita is 833 INR, it’s as 
low as 371 INR per person in Madhubani 
district, 433 INR per capita in Darbhanga 
district and 443 INR in Sitamarhi. In 
other words, rural credit outstanding per 
person in Madhubani district is less than 
half the average in Bihar and one-tenth of 
the average in Andhra Pradesh. Another 
example is Nagaland’s Mon district where 
rural credit outstanding per head is as low 
as 225 INR. In Manipur’s Ukhrul district, 
140,000 people in the rural areas share the 
princely credit outstanding of 8 lakh INR. 
There is wide variation within states. 
For example, while Saharanpur district 
in Uttar Pradesh has per capita rural 
credit outstanding of 3,387 INR that for 
Ghazipur, on its eastern border, is less 
than one-third of that, at 971 INR. In 
Maharashtra, while the figure for Pune 
district is 3,031 INR that for extremist-hit 
Gadchiroli is 1,101 INR. In Chhattisgarh, 
extremist-haunted Dantewada district 
has a per capita outstanding of 824 INR 
in rural credit. The country’s east gets far 
less rural credit. The data shows extensive 
inequality in the distribution of rural 
credit within the country pointing towards 
topography as a major factor. Accessing 
finance in the north east is more difficult 
that in mainland India. 
Analysing the reasons for existing wide 
variations, addressing related concerns 
and tailoring products and models that 
ably adapt to the peculiar characteristics 
will help conserve profit margins leading to 
sustainable financial percolation.

Exploring new horizons       9Roadblocks: How do we 
overcome them?
The NPS and the RSBY: Is the 
industry listening? 
A National Advisory Council (NAC) 
working group had recommended a 
social healthcare enterprise model for 
the delivery of universal health coverage 
(UHC) named the Rashtriya Swasthya 
Bima Yojna (RSBY). One of the significant 
recommendations is the formal integration 
of insurance schemes within the public 
health sector, a move experts maintain will 
further skew the healthcare landscape in 
favour of private providers. States have 
been asked to try at least one and up to 
three comparative models of district-level 
pilot projects to arrive at the most relevant 
and cost-effective one. 
The Pension Fund and Regulatory 
Development Authority (PFRDA) received 
the status of a statutory authority with 
the PFRDA Bill 2011 being cleared. The 
National Pension System (NPS) was 
designed to bring the informal workforce 
predominant in the semi-urban areas 
under the pension umbrella making it a 
well regulated product spanning the length 
and breadth of the country. Low surplus 
incomes underline the need for liquid 
money especially given the seasonal nature 
of on-farm activities. Hence subsequent 
amendments to the bill ensure timely 
withdrawals. Such tailored initiatives by 
the government that work in partnership 
with private players fasten the speed at 
which access to capital and  structured 
savings percolate to those who exist in 
relative isolation.Regulator
Lack of collateral is a concern of the 
creditors catering to the rural and semi-
rural areas, alongside the lack of capacity 
to fulfil all KYC norms. The RBI has notified 
the paperless electronic authentication, 
or electronic know-your-customer 
(eKYC) process provided by the Unique 
Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) to 
be valid. The customer can now authorise 
the bank to access user demographic 
records registered and stored in the 
UIDAI’s Central Identity Data Repository. 
The bank will then receive details from it 
after matching the customer’s biometrics 
scan with the Aadhaar number provided. 
Government
Financial Inclusion Plan: 2013- 2016
Financial literacy and product awareness 
is indispensable to financial inclusion. 
It should make people better informed, 
better educated and more confident, able 
to take greater responsibility for their 
financial affairs and enable them to play a 
more active role in the market for financial 
services. A facilitating environment 
(physical and social infrastructure) for 
inclusion needs to be created. This involves 
improving connectivity through roads, 
bridges, power and information as well as 
communication networks.
Industry
Branch and branchless services 
To ensure the reach of DBTs, there exists 
a need for outlets, either through brick-
and-mortar branches or the branchless 
mode, in all villages across the country. 
For this to succeed, it is important that 
quality services are provided through the 
new ICT-based BC outlets. Therefore, an 
intermediary low-cost brick-and-mortar 
structure is required between the base 
branches and BC locations. This will 
provide timely support to BC outlets, 
ensure close supervision of BC operations 
and give them credibility and increase 
people’s confidence in BC services. Hence, 
banks have been advised to plan for an 
increase in the proportion of branches 
that cover unbanked areas. The industry 
has been advised to consider setting 
up financial inclusion centres, to act as 
centres exclusively focussing on customers 
serviced through BCs. Further, to assist banks achieve the 25% 
mandate, banks have been advised to 
open small intermediary brick-and-mortar 
structures between the base branch and 
the unbanked villages. The industry needs 
to concentrate on creating an eco-system 
to ensure efficient delivery of services, 
efficiency in cash management, redressal of 
customer grievances and closer supervision 
of BC operations. To further encourage 
banks and various other industries they 
have been advised to consider frontloading 
(prioritising) the opening of branches in 
unbanked rural centres over a three-year 
cycle co-terminus with their FIPs. This 
is expected to facilitate quicker branch 
expansion in unbanked rural centres. 
Industry players also need to come up 
with innovative solutions such as BC 
outlets, other modes such as kiosks, 
off-site rural ATMs, mobile vans, etc. 
so as to resolve last-mile connectivity 
issues. Understanding the psyche of the 
rurban consumer and creating mass yet 
customised products is crucial to success. 
E.g. there is a mismatch of the lending 
products offered by financial institutions 
which are largely aimed at agricultural or 
other productive purposes, whereas the 
actual need of the consumer is to meet 
family emergencies. 
Obviously, administrative costs are a huge 
contributor to the high interest rates, 
currently standing at 11.4% of outstanding 
loans. The high rate of non-performing 
assets (NPAs) emerging from this section 
is also a dampener commercially. Re- 
engineering the cost to serve by leveraging 
onto technology will reap the benefit of 
large-scale variations.
Other industries such as FMCGs 
and telecom have managed to make 
considerable in-roads in the rurban. 
Forging the right partnerships with the 
government and regulators and adopting 
best practices from these industries will 
assist the financial services industry delve 
deeper into the evading rurban market 
profitably.
10 PwCThe regulatory institutions and the 
policy designs in the country still revolve 
around physical capital driving growth. 
The services sector contributes 55% 
(excluding construction) of the gross 
domestic product compared with 16% 
of manufacturing, resultantly large 
investments are being made in intangible 
assets. 
Financial institutions are still driven by 
the physical asset-based lending. This 
despite the fact that the biggest assets 
of enterprises today are their economic 
competence, including brand equity, 
region-specific human capital, networks 
joining people and institutions and 
organisational know-how that increases 
enterprise efficiency.
While the RBI is about to issue the list 
of provisional banking licences, the 26 
applicants can be classified into five 
categories: private companies, non-
banking financial companies (NBFCs), 
broking houses, government entities and 
others. Clearly, one part of the licensing 
policy has to be to help, facilitate and allow 
firms to evolve. Transforming an NBFC into 
a bank is a natural process of evolution, of 
a firm from one stage of existence to the 
other. This process cannot be a standalone 
process and needs policy aid. The fact is 
accentuated with 15 NBFCs among the 
26 entities who have applied for banking 
licences. To meet the objective of financial 
inclusion, policies need to work in tandem 
with the regulators and the industry 
to develop a sustainable model that 
effortlessly achieves last-man-connectivity 
profitably. While issuing guidelines for 
the grant of new banking licences, the RBI 
stated that financial inclusion will be an 
important criterion of assessment. New 
banks will be required to establish at least 
25%, a quarter, of their branches in places 
with less than a population of 10,000. The 
business model provided by the applicants 
for achieving financial inclusion will be 
a crucial parameter of the assessment 
matrix. 
As for their part, industry players need 
to be come up with innovative business 
models that are capable of continually 
evolving and adapting the challenges that 
the ‘rurban’ poses. To fulfill the extremely 
crucial criteria of financial inclusion, 
operating models need to be different in 
nature. MFIs such as Bandhan Financial 
Services and Janalakshmi Financial that 
have a considerable presence have applied 
for bank licences. These institutions will have the added advantage of door-to-door 
connectivity and customer trust in place.
Where do the banks stand?
This September, ICICI Bank launched 
its Branch on Wheels programme as a 
part of its financial inclusion plan. The 
programme is a mobile branch with an 
ATM that offers basic banking products 
and services such as savings accounts, 
loans, cash deposits, withdrawal, account 
balance enquiries, statement printing and 
funds transfer collections, among others. 
The mobile branch with an ATM will 
be operated at specific timings of the 
day in pre-identified, unbanked villages 
through a van that will be stationed at 
specified locations. It is equipped with 
a GPS tracking system, laptops with 3G 
connections, LED TV, a safe, a printer, 
a public announcement system, a UV 
lamp that detects forged cheques, a note 
counting-cum-authentication machine that 
identifies fake currency notes and a unique 
low-weight ATM. Two ICICI Bank officials 
and a guard will manage the mobile 
branch with ATM. The nearest branch of 
the bank will act as the parent branch of 
the ‘branch on wheels’, routing all the cash 
and transactions for it. Exploring various business models 
Such industry best practices suggest 
two things. One, the distribution model 
in place in urban markets cannot be 
replicated in rural markets, because 
this segment of the population has been 
structured differently with needs and 
requirements which differ from the urban 
segment with a different set of challenges. 
Two, innovative solutions tweaked to 
address area-specific concerns are a win-
win situation for both, FS institutions as 
well as consumers.
Branch banking:  Banks are probably the 
only financial institutions which have a 
significant brick-and-mortar presence 
in the rural and semi-urban areas as 
compared to other financial institutions 
such as insurance companies and asset 
management companies. The network of 
public sector banks is quite well established 
in these areas and can be effectively used 
to sell financial products and services to 
the under-banked. 
Branch correspondent or the branch 
facilitator model (BC or BF model):  Since 
2006, the RBI has permitted banks to 
employ business correspondents in order 
to expand their reach and provide financial 
products and services in rural and under-
penetrated areas. The number of BCs has 
steadily grown in number over time, with 
a significant increase in the number of 
transactions undertaken by them.
Growth of BCs
Source: RBI, 2013Number of BCs Number of transactions through BCs (in lakh)
Exploring new horizons       11With banks steadily appointing an 
increasing number of BCs over time, the 
number of villages that have come under 
the banking net has risen from 67,000 
villages in 2010 to around 211,000 villages 
as of December 2012. Banks are free to 
leverage post offices, NGOs, self-help 
groups, MFIs, farmers clubs, panchayats , 
community based organisations, co-
operative societies, etc to act as their BCs.  
The people residing in the rural areas fall 
into the low-income category and need 
small savings products to meet their needs 
of security, easy access and minimum 
documentation. They also need micro 
credit facilities in the form of term loans 
and overdrafts which will help them 
meet their working capital requirements. 
Banks extend these facilities to the 
BCs so that they can further connect to 
these customers at the grass-root level 
by opening accounts, collecting loan 
applications, doing KYC, etc.  
Typically, in rural areas the biggest 
obstacle lies in terms of geographical 
locations which are not connected by 
proper infrastructure. There is a huge cost 
involved in travelling long distances and 
waiting in long queues to avail banking 
facilities. Hence, these BCs need to be 
provided with a technology platform to 
facilitate these transactions and tide over 
operational hassles. 
Serving as a trusted interface between 
the bank and the customer, the BC has 
the ability to facilitate transaction of 
small amounts and encourage healthy 
savings behaviour in these customers. 
Moreover, the BC garners the trust of these 
people easily as someone from their own 
community. This model has however met 
with its fair share of challenges.  The BC model in Brazil 
Background: The financial inclusion initiative in Brazil has been 
fostered by the BC model, the credit-co-operatives and bank service 
outposts, out of which the BC model has been observed to be the 
most successful. In Brazil, the number of bank branches per 
100,000 adults rose from 13.7 to 14.7 between 2006 and 2011, 
complemented with a rise in the number of BCs from 55.4 
establishments per 100,000 adults in 2006 to 113 establishments 
per 100,000 adults in 2011. The popular correspondents in Brazil 
are post offices, lottery outlets and supermarkets. 
Success factors: Favourable regulatory reforms in the financial 
services sector have acted as catalyst for the growth of the 
industry. What seem to have driven the success of the BC model in 
Brazil are specific regulations concerning space and equipment for 
bank branches and agreements related to payroll of bank 
employees. The regulatory framework also ensures repayment 
favouring access to credit for workers. Regulations have been 
directed solely to increase transparency in prices, services and to 
standardise operations.
Correspondents are required to have a mandatory certification in 
financial inclusion, and are subject to anti-money laundering 
rules and due diligence. 
Also, Brazil allows considerable leeway in handling cash by 
non-financial firms as compared to other countries. 
A significant move by the government entails a decision to route 
all payments of social benefits through the state owned bank 
Caixa Economica Federal, leveraging the fact that this bank has 
the largest network of correspondents in the country through its 
partnership with lottery houses and retail stores. 
There has also been strong political support towards increasing 
financial reach. Overall, we can comment saying that differential 
regulation for correspondent banking has been significantly 
responsible for the success of this model in Brazil and has been 
instrumental in tailoring suitable products for lower income 
groups.   
What can be done better: The array of products and services 
offered by correspondents can be increased with an inclusion of 
insurance and pension products. This network can also be used 
optimally to provide a basic level of financial education to the 
rural customers. Brazil
12 PwCChallenges
Low volume of transactions: The success 
of the BC model is heavily dependent 
on the transaction volume, which as 
compared to urban areas, has failed to pick 
up momentum. Another challenge faced 
by the BCs is that they are not incentivised 
enough to remain in this business.  It has 
been estimated that most of these BCs earn 
less than 3,000 INR per month. As per the 
current commission structure, the agents 
are entitled to a percentage of the amount 
transferred. This naturally implies that 
the BCs would want to gain high-value 
transactions and ignore customers who 
make low-value transactions, defeating the 
purpose of the BC model.    
Dormant accounts: Close to 100 million 
no-frills accounts have been opened 
by the BCs in operation, out of which 
only around 20% have been found to be 
currently operational. Reason for this has 
been a mass opening of these accounts 
by banks in order to meet their financial 
inclusion targets, and subsequently very 
little promotion by the BC or the bank to 
use these accounts frequently. The account 
holders need to be made aware of the 
transaction process, limits on volumes, etc.  
Insufficient	cash:	 Rural areas receive a 
large amount of remittances from urban 
areas and are known to be remittance 
heavy. It often happens that BCs end up 
in a situation of liquidity crunch and are 
unable to provide funds to the beneficiary 
at the required time. This puts the 
reputation of the BC at considerable risk. 
Operational issues:  Multiple inefficiencies 
exist with the integration of BC technology 
platforms into the bank’s platform. 
Software glitches, unavailability of power 
back-ups and server downtimes are some 
of the daily issues that the BCs need to deal 
with. 
Sub optimal operating model between 
banks and BCs:  For instance, government 
payments (DBTs) are being leveraged 
to create viability in the system. There 
is inequitable distribution of revenue. 
While the banks make money on the float 
income, the BCs who take on the ‘on the 
ground’ execution are not adequately 
compensated. The success of the BC model 
is also dependent on the support provided 
by the base branch services especially for 
cash management, documentation and 
redressal of consumer grievances.Insuring rural India: Best 
practices 
The Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in a 
first-of-its-kind initiative has launched the 
bima gram  or an insurance village under 
the LIC brand. For a village to be branded, 
at least 75% of the households in it must 
have at least one LIC policy and 100 new 
policies should come in from the village 
in a financial year in which the village is 
to be declared a bima gram.  Once it gets 
the branding, the insurance company will 
plough back part of the premium earned 
from the village to build infrastructure, 
both physical and soft-social, in the form 
of hand-pumps, solar power supply house 
schools, etc. 
The cost of such will however not be 
more than 25% of the premium income 
received during the year from policies 
issued, subject to a ceiling of 25,000 INR 
in a financial year. To be a bima gram , the 
village should be a rural centre as per the 
definition of the IRDA with a minimum 
population of 1,000. The number lapsed 
policies issued prior to the current financial 
year should not be more than 20% at that 
time when the village is to be declared as a 
bima gram.  
LIC believes that rural insurance has 
always been big business and having a 
branded concept for it should work well. 
With private players flocking to the urban 
areas, the rural market is vibrant and the 
logistics of revenue will be in favour of 
the LIC. The affordability of purchasing 
a policy in a rural area and the premium 
payable will depend on the individual’s 
paying capacity for different policies.
However, insuring rural India comes with 
its own set of challenges which are similar 
to the ones faced by banks.
Product design: One  of the  biggest 
challenges is deployment of the right 
product to these customers in line with 
their requirements.   
Trust of intermediaries: Another factor 
which is important for selling policies to 
these low-income groups is credibility. 
Intermediaries need to gain the trust 
of these customers to convince them to 
purchase insurance cover. Private sector insurance players have tried 
to bring in some amount of innovation 
in products and operating mechanisms, 
within regulatory requirements. This has 
been done by introducing co-payment 
models, health screening, tele-medicine, 
mobile enrolments, internet kiosks, 
weather based insurance, rainfall index 
insurance, etc.  
A study has found that there is 
inconsistency among insurance players in 
defining micro-insurance. Some insurance 
players categorise their products as ‘rural 
products’ while some term them as micro 
insurance. In general, insurance players 
find it difficult to position their products 
within the IRDA guidelines. Making a sum 
assured of 30,000 INR on health insurance 
cover viable for the low-income group does 
not make much business sense. 
How a private insurance 
player works  
Background: Market research undertaken 
by the company indicated that low-income 
groups were not really averse to purchasing 
insurance. They were just apprehensive 
about tedious documentation, payment 
of regular instalments and need of 
money during exigencies. If  a product 
allows the flexibility to pay instalments 
as and when they have money, with no 
or minimal penalty, and the freedom to 
withdraw money when they require it in 
any emergency, these customers will be 
more attracted towards buying insurance 
policies. Hence, the first step in selling to 
the rural segment is designing a product 
tailored to their needs. 
Approach to distribution: This  insurance 
player put in place a local sales force to 
cater to the needs of these customers. The 
model is such that while advisors work on 
a commission basis, sales managers work 
with a variable component linked to the 
number of policies sold. 
A simple product was designed to be sold 
to this market, which does not require 
the customer to make monthly, quarterly 
or annual premium like other insurance 
players. The other aspect was convenience 
with this product being sold over the 
counter at small local retail stores. 
It adopted a multi-pronged distribution 
channel engaging as many partners as 
possible at the grassroot level.   Leading insurance player 
“Lack of a tied-agency concept, does not 
incentivise financial service providers to 
invest in their agents.”
Exploring new horizons       13Add-on insurance increases 
deposits  
In 2011, Microensure launched a savings-
linked product with a bank in Ghana 
that had been experiencing low account 
balances and limited transactions. 
Although the bank had over 100,000 
depositors, more than 85% held a balance 
of less than 60 USD. Each of these 
customers actually cost the bank about 
0.24 USD per month in administrative 
costs. The bank wanted to provide an 
incentive to customers to increase their 
savings balance. 
Microensure and its partner StarLife 
Assurance launched an insurance product 
tied to the savings accounts. Depositors 
who held a minimum balance of 60 USD 
each month were entitled to free life 
insurance with benefits of up to 180 USD. 
Clients with a balance of 120 USD were 
entitled to life insurance for their spouse 
and children as well. 
In the first five months after product 
launch, the bank’s deposits increased by 
19%. Deposits from clients with balances 
below 60 USD increased by 207% in five 
months as clients saved more to access the 
free insurance. This increase, along with 
anecdotal evidence from interviews with 
depositors, suggests that many customers 
saved more as a result of the insurance 
cover. Micro-insurance in Indonesia  
Background:  Payung Keluarga (PK), which means Family Umbrella in 
Bhasa, is a credit life product that Allianz Life Indonesia specifically 
designed to meet the needs of micro borrowers who take loans from 
microfinance institutions. In October 2012, six years after its launch as a 
pilot product in Indonesia, Payung Keluarga successfully reached the 
mark of one million active insured.
There are more than 50,000 MFIs, serving 52 million small 
entrepreneurs in a population of 250 million. Allianz spells out a 
considerable amount of business potential to market not only credit life 
products but also other micro-insurance products in these areas. 
Success factors: The product itself acts as a key differentiator which in 
addition to providing life insurance cover, offers over 50 combinations of 
possible benefits, dependant on a single product and system platform. 
The interesting thing to note is that it is the MFIs who get to decide on the 
benefit package from these multiple options, which they are allowed to 
further customise by customer group. 
Another factor is an attractive compensation scheme. To distribute PK to 
MFIs, Allianz Indonesia uses two approaches–direct selling by staff and 
secondly, through tied agents and brokers. The commission is as high as 
7% of gross written premium for tied agents for the first five years of the 
policy, free of any training, collection or servicing obligation on the 
agent. Another aspect to this compensation scheme is that once a 
particular MFI has been secured as a distribution channel, PK provides 
the MFI benefits in the form of a mark-up premium as well as profit-
sharing. This concept of profit-sharing is new in the donesian market 
and is perceived favourably by the MFIs as it instills a sense of ownership 
and contributes to sustainable servicing of the product.   
Operations are fairly simple and efficient, with 99% of loans not 
requiring any kind of underwriting. No complex documentation process 
and the use of a single monthly report accessed by all parties streamlines 
administrative hassles. Claims payment process takes around three to 
five days, with a rejection rate of below 1%. 
Lessons learnt: The first thing that needs to be kept in mind is that 
credit life is just an entry point. The rural population has the need for 
small business insurance, health insurance, savings related insurance, 
etc and these products need to be pushed into the market to grow this 
base of customers. 
Products need to be designed keeping customers in mind. They need to be 
flexible enough to attract customers in the first place. After introducing a 
modular version of the product PK in 2008, gross premium picked up 
from 70,000 to 865,000 GBP in 2012. 
Another critical factor here is business relationship management 
between Allianz and MFIs, to secure a long-term relationship with 
partner MFIs. Statistics show that after the introduction of a dedicated 
BRM function in 2011, partner persistency picked up from 69 to 90% in 
2012.  
Also, the correct MFI needs to be identified for the product at the very 
onset. Once the scheme starts selling, many MFIs are hesitant to make 
changes in the structure of the product and benefits provided.
Source: Micro insurance innovation facility, ILO (2013)Indonesia
14 PwCNBFCs teach some lessons 
Relative to various industry stakeholders, 
NBFCs have been the most successful in 
reaching and capturing a share of the rural 
markets in India. They have managed 
profitable operations through a different 
cost- to-serve model. This combines a 
deep understanding of the local consumer 
with proximity to them and the use of 
technology (handheld POS to facilitate 
transactions and enable productivity). 
NBFCs in India such as Shriram Transport 
Finance Mahindra and Mahindra Financial 
Services have been successful in catering 
to the needs of the rural economy. They 
provide a low-cost business model and last-
mile connectivity, two crucial parameters 
to succeed in the rurban. Also, leveraging 
on their customer reach network helps 
them compensate for costs that are higher 
than banks. Utilising these financial 
intermediaries along with banks to achieve 
financial inclusion needs to be the plan.
Franchisee model: Large players have 
adopted the franchisee model to extend 
their geographical reach and have 
appointed small franchisees to sell these 
products. A share of profit is provided to 
the franchisee. 
BC and MFIs: Some NBFCs  appoint 
business associates which help in 
enhancing reach without opening physical 
branches. The advantage in this case is that 
the appointed intermediary is well-versed 
with the local market and needs of the 
customer. 
Recruiting local talent: NBFCs have been 
successful in penetrating remote areas at 
the grassroot level by hiring and training 
from the local pool. This serves as a huge 
cost advantage as well as helps understand 
local market requirements.  CEO of a leading NBFC 
“Focus has been on protection plans with a small ticket size, 
affordability and high demand. Most industry players were of the view 
that in the current scenario, the insurance product is the most viable, 
with higher margins as compared to other products like mutual funds.”
NBFC viewpoint
“The gold loan business has been a 
pathbreaking innovation in the rural 
markets and yielded multiple benefits 
to financial institutions.”  CEO viewpoint
“Interestingly, it has been observed if 
one branch opens in a particular under-
penetrated area, other players 
immediately establish their own 
branches in that area, leading that 
market to saturation point.” The Indian Post
1. In association with the Bharat 
Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), the 
Indian Post launched the ‘Mobile 
money transfer’ service wherein 
money can be transferred from one 
post office to the other. This service 
is available in 7,000 post offices 
spanning 13 states, percolating 
down to the village level as well. 
2. Agent based models have succeeded 
in making some amount of progress 
with companies like FINO, EKO, A 
Little World, etc.   Challenges faced by NBFCs
Heavy dependence on banks for funding: 
NBFCs  rely on  banks for most of their 
funding, especially true in the case of 
smaller NBFCs. Out of every 100 INR 
that banks in India lend, 6 INR goes to 
the NBFCs.  Shortage of funds and entry 
of banks in the retail lending segment 
have adversely affected profitability. In 
businesses where both banks and NBFCs 
have a presence, there are limited business 
opportunities for NBFCs to flourish. They 
have a high cost of funds in comparison 
to banks primarily due to the fact that 
NBFCs do not have access to refinance 
like banks. Banks have access to multiple 
organisations for refinance needs, e.g. RBI, 
NABARD, EXIM, SIDBI, etc while NBFCs 
stand at a disadvantage as they can rely 
on banks or the capital market for raising 
capital.  
Securitisation of loans: This is also one 
of the major concerns that NBFCs in India 
face.Bank on the ‘mobile’: Other 
alternatives for the industry 
to consider
Another channel being exploited by banks 
to reach the under-banked population of 
India is capitalising on the mobile boom. 
Mobile network operators have been able 
to successfully penetrate remote areas and 
gain significant volume in their usage in 
places where there is no bank branch or 
ATM. Hence, it makes sense for banks to 
partner with telecom operators in order to 
reach this segment of the population.  
There are 929.37 million mobile 
subscribers in India 50% of which belong 
to rural areas, signifying that there is 
immense opportunity to leverage this 
channel and increase reach of financial 
products.  
MNOs sell through a multi-layered 
distribution umbrella which consists 
of the main distributor, stockists and 
retailers who stock other goods apart from 
mobile top-ups. The MNO model has been 
successful in countries such as Africa, but 
its take-off in India remains to be assessed. 
The use of this network in India has been 
limited to remittances and the benefit has 
not managed to extend to other financial 
products.    
This model has the capacity to create 
awareness among customers and increase 
levels of financial literacy while effectively 
utilising mobile banking services.
Currently, Kenya leads in offering 
financial services via the mobile with 
M-Pesa, attributing two-thirds of the adult 
population use this channel.   
Exploring new horizons       15The enabling regulatory approach by the Central Bank of 
Kenya, has resulted in mobile financial services being 
used by  
23 million people  
via a network of more than  
90,000 agents
while in Tanzania,  
45% of the adult population is  
using mobile financial services through  
138,000 agents.
Mobile banking in Bangladesh
Background: Prior to the mobile banking initiative kicking off in Bangladesh, only 13% 
of the 160 million people in Bangladesh had bank accounts. However, 50% of this 
population was estimated to possess mobile phones. Bangladesh has performed 
favourably in terms of growing the banking system and reaching out to the unbanked 
population. 
Statistics indicate that 23.3% of the adult population have access to credit. Bangladesh 
has a large micro-finance market with the number of agents (9,093) exceeding the 
number of branches (7,961) and ATMs (3,000). The mobile financial services market is at 
a stage where providers are trying to leverage technology and achieve scale of operations, 
improve the strength of agent networks and acquire new customers. Currently, mobile 
banking clients have reached 7 .21 million as of September 2013. 
Success factors:  The model for the structured guidelines for the mobile financial services 
market released by Bangladesh Bank in 2011 was agent centric. The critical factor in this 
model was building trust as mobile banking with the tag of a bank attached to it added 
more credibility. 
What seemed to have worked in this market are the partnerships between banks and 
mobile network operators to take financial products to the under-penetrated areas. As the 
mobile market in Bangladesh reaches a mature stage in the development cycle, it becomes 
critical for banks to forge the right alliance or partnership. For example, a subsidiary of 
an SME based local bank, signed up with an MNO for access through the USSD. The 
distribution model was similar to that of an MNO but proved to be more effective by way 
of establishment of their brand and tying up with various telcos to ensure availability of 
their services across networks.  
Another factor was upgrading the payment system with online automated interbank 
settlement of paper based and electronic fund transfers. 
Regulatory guidelines have been found to be flexible and more consultative in approach 
avoiding being prescriptive by nature. 
There is constant dialogue between the telecom regulator and Bangladesh Bank, the 
understanding being that the telecom regulator will oversee operations of telcos network 
services in the bank telco partnership while Bangladesh Bank will regulate the financial 
side of the mobile phone based financial services in the bank-telco partnerships.Kenya
Tanzania
Bangaldesh
16 PwCThe government, regulators 
and industry players 
The regulator plays a critical role in 
encouraging and facilitating distribution 
in under-banked areas.  The IRDA 
regulations set rural insurance targets 
for each company. These require that 
7% of all life insurance business should 
be generated from the rural social sector 
in the first financial year. This should 
increase annually to reach 18% by the sixth 
financial year. For general insurance, 2% 
of insured premium in the first financial 
year should be from rural social business, 
increasing annually to 5% in the sixth year. 
The RBI has relaxed branch authorisation 
to the extent that banks do not require 
prior permission to open branches in 
centres with a population of less than 1 
lakh, which is subject to reporting. To 
further step up the opening of branches in 
rural areas, banks have been mandated to 
open at least 25% of their new branches in 
unbanked rural centres.   
DMAT of insurance policies 
announced recently by the IRDA, 
will prove to be a revolutionary 
step in favour of pushing 
products out to the rural 
markets. 
Industry viewpoint
“The regulator should give a proper 
turnaround time for the market, 
and be less restrictive in nature to 
promote better distribution.” However, given the multiple variables at 
play, it is crucial that the government and 
its policy design, regulators and industry 
benchmarks work in tandem to generate a 
sustainable model beneficial to consumers 
and the industry. Creating such a viable 
model cannot be achieved by initiatives 
that function in isolation.
Rather, incorporating various requirements 
and developing a sustainable solution is 
the route to capture the rural market.Industry players need adequate incentives 
to facilitate financial inclusion beyond the 
mandatory. Both, the government and 
the regulator need to create an enabling 
ecosystem to facilitate the industry 
body to be successful. It cannot just be a 
mandate to the industry or a functioning 
that often takes place in isolation. The 
three stakeholders need to work in perfect 
rhythm with each other, understanding 
various constraints to achieve the goal of 
financial percolation for the rurban. 
At the end of the tunnel?
The need for the regulator and the 
government to work in tandem with 
industry cannot be emphasised enough. 
The policy framework and execution 
should weave in considerable incentives 
for the industry, prompting them to 
pro-actively bear the torch of financial 
inclusion. For instance, the government 
needs to create an enabling infrastructure 
that holistically encompasses the NPS, 
RSBY, NREGA and DBT under one 
umbrella. Coupled with this, physical 
infrastructure that accentuates last-mile 
connectivity needs to be in place to save 
administrative costs. To enhance the 
percentage of insurance in rural India, 
passage of the Insurance Bill is crucial.
Industry players need understanding of 
the nuances relating consumer behaviour 
in these regions to align their needs and 
preferences (income, consumption and 
risk patterns) with product development. 
Innovative use of technology is allowing 
players worldwide to reach low-income 
groups. The SMAC (social, mobile, 
analytics and cloud) concept comes 
to play to look at device enabled sales 
forces, STP and paperless branches, 
using new collaboration techniques to 
co-create products with customers and 
better insights to individual customer risk 
profiling. All this will lead to enhanced 
productivity with lower costs. 
Forge the right partnerships: No 
single player is the key-element of the 
value chain. Therefore it is imperative 
for financial institutions to get into 
partnerships to enhance reach and 
capability to serve this section of the 
society. Partnerships can be leveraged at 
various levels, with RRBs to leverage their 
infrastructure, with FMCG companies 
to leverage on their rural initiatives. E.g. the Shakti Aamma  initiative by HUL with 
central and state governments in their FI 
initiatives and the distribution of welfare 
scheme payments to rural households and 
with telecom players to piggyback on their 
penetration levels.
Recent numbers estimate that 75% of 
the new branches of the total branches 
have been opened in semi-urban and 
rural areas. This showcases that banking 
services are reaching these areas at much 
faster pace than it used to a few years ago. 
Deposits and other saving schemes are the 
stars and the starting points in the rural 
markets. However, these markets not only 
face a technology challenge but also the 
business model challenge. All stakeholders 
need to address the specific nuances 
and then leverage existing demand. 
Existing banks are not able to fulfill the 
demand because it is difficult to create a 
new business model within the existing 
business model. The new banks about 
to receive their licences might be able to 
address this in a far more optimal manner 
through innovative operating models.
Bad loans from the agriculture sector 
have grown by 47% in the fiscal year 
2011-12, higher than the 40% growth in 
such loans from non-agricultural sectors. 
Traditionally, loans to agriculture have 
always shown higher NPAs than non-farm 
loans. This trend is evident since 2004 with 
exceptions during the fiscal years 2009 and 
2010. The union government had waived 
76,000 crore INR worth of farm loans in 
2008. Dissected from any angle, these 
numbers weaken the confidence of private 
players in the rural market widening the 
gap between the formal and informal. 
Policy initiatives designed to weave these 
into the existing welfare structure need to 
be in place.
The banking sector has not really 
addressed partnership models with 
telecom firms especially in terms of 
low-cost channels such as unstructured 
supplementary service data (USSD) and 
revenue sharing. However, the new RBI 
Governor has promised to work out a 
way for telecom companies and banks to 
forge partnerships. This may open up the 
mobile banking space on a wider scale 
than before. Interface related innovation 
is also key with respect to transactions. 
Understanding consumer behaviour and 
inculcating those in delivering the product 
and the way it is delivered is crucial to the 
success of any model.The chosen path  
Cohesion of the government, regulators and industry players
Exploring new horizons       17References
•	Global Findex, World Bank, 2012
•	National Sample survey, 68th round
•	Census of India, 2011
•	Various working papers of the RBI and 
RBI statistics
•	AIDIS survey, 2010
•	www.icicibank.com
18 PwCAbout CII
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain 
an environment conducive to the development of India, partnering 
industry, government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative 
processes. 
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-
managed organization, playing a proactive role in India’s development 
process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association 
has over 7100 members, from the private as well as public sectors, 
including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 
enterprises from around 257 national and regional sectoral industry 
bodies. 
CII charts change by working closely with government on policy 
issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, 
competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range 
of specialised services and strategic global linkages. It also provides a 
platform for consensus-building and networking on key issues. 
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify 
and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civil 
society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated 
and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative 
action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill 
development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few. 
The CII theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through 
Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance.  Towards 
this, CII advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth 
trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus on accountability, 
transparency and measurement in the corporate and social eco-system, 
building a knowledge economy, and broad-basing development to help 
deliver the fruits of progress to all. 
With 63 offices, including 10 Centers of Excellence, in India, and seven 
overseas offices in Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, 
and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart 
organisations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian 
industry and the US international business community.Contacts
Confederation of Indian Industry
Western Region
105 Kakad Chambers,  
132 Dr Annie Besant Road
Worli, Mumbai - 400018
Maharashtra, India
Phone: +91 22 24931790
Fax: +91 22 24939463 / 2494 5831
Email: ciiwr@cii.in
Website: www.cii.in
Exploring new horizons       19About PwC
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking 
for. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 
people who are committed to delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and 
Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find out more by visiting 
us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, 
Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information 
about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, 
each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure 
for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcContacts
Manoj K Kashyap 
Leader, Financial Services 
Direct: +91 (022) 6669 1888 
Email: manoj.k.kashyap@in.pwc.com
Gaurav Dev Burman
Associate Director, Financial Services
Direct: +91 22 6669 1276
Email: gaurav.burman@in.pwc.com
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 124 - Dec 2013 CIIDistributionSummmit.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
