Title: pwc_shale-oil-report
Date Published: 2013-02-07 14:15:29+00:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_shale-oil-report.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Shale oil:  
the next energy 
revolution
The long term impact of 
shale oil on the global energy 
sector and the economy
 February 2013www.pwc.co.uk

1
Shale oil – February 2013Contents
Executive summary 2
Shale in the US 4 
The story so far
Beyond the United States 6
Global shale oil scenarios 8
The bigger picture 12 
Global macroeconomic impacts of lower oil pricesWinners and losers by country 14
Opportunites and challenges 18 
For governments and companies
2Shale oil – February 2013Executive summary
• Shale oil (light tight oil) is rapidly emerging  
as a significant and relatively low cost new unconventional resource in the US. There is 
potential for shale oil production to spread 
globally over the next couple of decades. If it does, it would revolutionise global energy markets, providing greater long term energy security at lower cost for many countries.
• Our analysis suggests that global shale oil production has the potential to reach up to  14 million barrels of oil per day by 2035; this 
amounts to 12% of the world’s total oil supply. 
• We estimate that this increase could reduce oil 
prices in 2035 by around 25%-40% ($83-$100/barrel in real terms) relative to the current 
baseline EIA projection of $133/barrel in 2035, 
which assumes low levels of shale oil production.• In turn, we estimate this could increase the level of global GDP in 2035 by around 2.3%-3.7% (which equates to around $1.7-$2.7 
trillion at today’s global GDP values).
• However, the benefits of such oil price 
reductions will vary significantly by country. Large net oil importers such as India and Japan 
might see their GDP boosted by around 4%-7% 
by 2035, while the US, China, the Eurozone and the UK might gain by 2%-5% of GDP.
• Conversely, major oil exporters such as Russia and the Middle East could see a significant worsening of their trade balances by around 4%-10% of GDP in the long run if they fail to develop their own shale oil resources.
3 Shale oil – February 2013• The potential emergence of shale oil presents 
major strategic opportunities and challenges for the oil and gas industry and for 
governments worldwide. It could also influence 
the dynamics of geopolitics as it increases energy independence for many countries  and reduces the influence of OPEC. 
• There are significant strategic implications along the value chain. Oil producers, for example, will have carefully to assess their current portfolios and planned projects  
against lower oil price scenarios. 
• National and international oil producers will 
also need to review their business models and skills in light of the very different demands  
of producing shale oil onshore rather than 
developing complex “frontier” projects on which most operations and new investment  is currently focused.• Lower than expected oil prices could  also create long-term benefits for a wide  range of businesses with products that  
use oil or oil-related products as inputs  
(e.g. petrochemicals and plastics, airlines,  road hauliers, automotive manufacturers  and heavy industry more generally). 
• The potential environmental consequences of an increase in shale oil production are complex and appropriate regulation will be needed to meet local and national environmental concerns. 
Shale oil could have adverse environmental 
effects by making alternative lower carbon transport fuels less attractive,  but might also displace production from higher cost and more environmentally sensitive areas such as the 
Arctic and Canadian tar sands.
4Shale oil – February 2013Shale in the US 
The story so far
• Shale oil production has been accelerating in US, 
growing from 111,000 barrels per day in 2004 to 553,000 barrels per day in 2011 (equivalent to a 
growth rate of around 26% per year). As a result, 
US oil imports are forecast this year to fall to their lowest levels for over 25 years. 
• Estimates by the US Energy Information 
Administration (EIA) suggest that shale oil 
production in the US will rise more slowly in  the future to around 1.2 million barrels per day by 2035
1 (equivalent to 12% of projected US 
production at that date). However, these projections seem conservative relative to other 
market analysts who forecast US shale oil 
production of up to 3-4 million barrels per  day by that date.
2
• EIA estimates of the scale of total shale oil resources in the US have been revised upwards from 4 billion barrels in 2007 to 33 billion barrels 
in 2010, providing a significant contribution to 
increased US energy independence (as shown  in Chart 1).
3Chart 1. EIA US technically recoverable shale oil assessments by basin made between 2005 and 2010
Anadarko Permian Western Gulf Rocky Mountain San Joaquin Williston 05101520253035
Source: EIA Annual Energy Outlook 2012
5
Shale oil – February 2013• Shale oil could make the largest single contribution 
to total US oil production growth by 2020, with the proportion of production from conventional 
sources remaining relatively stable.
• In the long term, we estimate that shale oil 
could displace around 35-40% of waterborne crude oil imports to the US. This would create 
additional effective supply to other locations 
such as China. However, should China start to exploit its own shale oil resources(as discussed further below) this would further decrease its 
import dependency and increase effective 
supply to oil importing countries.
• Rapid production growth in shale oil is having dramatic local effects on pricing in areas where 
shale oil is produced but access to export 
infrastructure is limited. The US domestic oil price has already decoupled from global indices and imports are forecast to decline (as shown Chart 2 below). Put simply, increased shale  
oil production could lead to oil prices that  
are significantly lower than projected in current forecasts.
1. EIA Annual Energy Outlook 2012
2.  See recent projections from Citi Energy 2020, IEA World Energy Outlook 2012, Credit Suisse US Oil Production Outlook (September 2012),IHS Cera, and BP Statistical Review 2012.
3. EIA Annual Energy Outlook 2012Chart 2. WTI and Brent Oil Price Spread (2004-12)
0 100   200   300   400   500   600  
 -10  -5
  0   5   10   15   20   25   30  2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 
mbblspd $ 
WTI Brent Spread (Left scale) Shale Oil Production (Right scale) 
Source: EIA AEO 2009,2010,2011,2012, Baker Hughes 
6Shale oil – February 2013Beyond the United States
• Outside the US, the development of shale  
oil is still at an early stage. However, there  
are indications that point to large amounts  
of technically recoverable resources  
distributed globally. 
• Global shale oil resources are estimated at 
between 330 billion and 1,465 billion barrels4. 
Investment is already underway to characterise, quantify and develop shale oil resources 
outside the US, for example, in Argentina, 
Russia and China
5. 
• Since the beginning of 2012, there have been  
a number of announcements, from Argentina 
to New Zealand, of discoveries of shale oil resources as well as government initiatives  to encourage the exploration and production  of shale oil (see Map 1).
 4. “A review of uncertainties in estimates of global oil resources”, McGlade, C.E., UCL Energy Institute 
 5. International Gas Report, Dow Jones, SeeNews, Diamond Gas Report, Platts, Natural Gas Intelligence, EFE, APS Review, Upstream , Oil and Gas news, Oil Daily, Financial TimesSeptember 2012
Two firms achieve 
positive results from test wells in Northern Alaska
October 2012
Exxon acquires rights to explore two blocks in Columbia thought to contain shale oilOctober 2012
Operators apply for licences  to export shale oil from US
October 2012
Mexico plans to invest in $242m project to assess non-conventional energy 
potential
September 2012
YPF signs agreement with 
Chevron to explore and develop shale oil in Vaca 
Muerta, Argentina
7
Shale oil – February 2013Source: PwC researchOctober 2012
Russia plans zero extraction tax 
for a greater range of shale oil reserves
January 2013
Australian energy company announces discovery of 233 bn bbls of shale oil resourcesJuly 2012
Statoil enters race to develop Australian shale oil playsApril 2012
China’s CNPC engages in talks with international firms to jointly explore shale oil reserves
October 2012
JAPEX recovers small amount of crude oil in shale oil testing
September 2012
New Zealand government encourages shale oil explorationMap 1. Shale oil investment is global
8Shale oil – February 2013The potential impact of rising 
shale oil production on global  oil prices
• We have developed scenarios that consider the 
potential impact of future growth in shale oil production on oil prices. We have then assessed 
how oil price changes of this magnitude could 
impact the wider economy up to 2035 at both global and national levels using a macroeconomic model.
• These long-term projections are subject to many uncertainties and are conditioned on a number of key assumptions as summarised in Box 1. The specific figures quoted for different 
scenarios should therefore be interpreted as 
being indicative of broad orders of magnitude rather than being precise numerical forecasts.
• The remainder of this paper summarises  
the key results of this research and outlines  
the potential implications for companies  and governments.Box 1: Scenario assumptions and considerations
The scenarios presented in this 
report rest on a number of key 
assumptions:
• The successful development of shale 
oil resources is dependent on the presence of globally distributed, large 
scale, good quality resources, with 
overall technical and economic recoverability that is broadly in line with the produced shale oil resource in the US. Significant exploration and 
appraisal will need to be undertaken 
in future years to prove resource quantity and quality. 
• The second key consideration is the 
timing of large scale development of 
shale oil resources. Development of shale gas outside the US has arguably been disappointing to date and the same issues (including regulatory obstacles, infrastructure, logistics and 
skills challenges) may also influence the pace at which shale oil opportunities are pursued outside the US. We assume 
that shale oil production outside the US is phased in several stages, starting with small scale production from 
2015, building up to one million 
barrels per day by 2018 and continuing to grow thereafter.
• The third key requirement for shale 
oil to be exploited effectively is a 
supportive regulatory framework. This also needs, however, to take account of local environmental concerns and to be consistent with 
national government objectives on 
decarbonisation and energy security. Different countries are likely to strike a different balance here and this is reflected, for example, in our 
assumption that shale oil production 
develops more slowly in the EU than in the US and some other territories.Global shale oil scenarios 
9
Shale oil – February 2013Recent forecasts from the EIA and the 
International Energy Agency (IEA) suggest a marked rise in both global oil production and real 
oil prices over the period to 2035, due in particular 
to rising demand from China, India and other fast-growing emerging economies
6. The IEA 
forecasts a 19% increase in global oil production by 2035, as compared to a 28% increase forecast 
by the EIA
7 (which is not that large a difference 
given the uncertainties involved in any such 
long-term projections). 
The EIA and IEA’s average global oil price predictions 
are even more closely aligned, with the IEA predicting a sharp short-term increase that gradually flattens off in the longer term to $127 per barrel by 
2035 and the EIA predicting a steadier price increase 
to reach $133 per barrel by 2035 (both estimates are expressed in real terms adjusted for general US price inflation, which is also the case for all other oil price 
projections quoted in this report). 
In deriving these oil price projections, both 
agencies assume relatively modest growth in  shale oil as a proportion of total global production. 
Their projections in this respect are arguably 
conservative as they are based only on resources about which there is already a high degree of certainty. Past experience of shale oil and shale  gas suggests that these resource estimates are 
likely to be revised upwards significantly over time  
as activity to new plays in the US and globally.Extrapolating from the available data (and drawing parallels with US shale gas experience) 
has enabled us to generate a number of scenarios which see shale oil production ramping up both in the US and around the globe. As shown in Chart 3, 
this analysis suggests that global shale oil 
production has the potential to rise to up to 14 million barrels of oil per day by 2035 in our main scenario, amounting to 12% of total oil supply at that date (using EIA projections for production 
other than shale oil).
6.  These global energy and oil demand projections are also broadly consistent with those derived from our own ‘World in 2050’ long-term economic growth model, as described further in this recent PwC publication:  
http://www.pwc.com/gx/en/world-2050/the-brics-and-beyond-prospects-challenges-and-opportunities.jhtml
7. Sources: EIA International Energy Outlook (IEO) 2011, EIA American Energy Outlook (AEO) 2012 and IEA World Energy Outlook (WEO) 2012. Chart 3. Global liquids production by resource
020406080100120
2040 2035 2030 2025 2020 2015 2010
Conventional oil (incl NGLs) CTLs/GTLs Extra heavy oil Shale oil
Source: EIA IEO 2011, PwC Analysis (main scenario) 
10Shale oil – February 2013We have developed two core oil price scenarios8 
based on this shale oil production outlook:
• The first scenario (the ‘PwC reference case’) 
allows for OPEC to respond to increases in shale oil production and consequent lower  oil prices by limiting its own production to maintain an average price of around $100 
dollars per barrel (in real terms). This supply 
scenario results in OPEC losing some market share, although OPEC member states continue to increase total production in absolute terms 
to meet rising demand (as shown in Chart 4).
• The second scenario (the ‘PwC low case’) does 
not include an OPEC response, so the increased overall oil supply results in a greater impact on 
oil prices, which fall by 2035 to around $83 per 
barrel in real terms. Chart 4. Forecast of OPEC production in PwC reference case vs. EIA reference case
05101520253035404550
EIA reference case (Left Scale) 
PwC reference case (Left scale)0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
OPEC % PwC reference case (Right scale)OPEC % EIA (Right scale)2035 2030 2025 2020 2015 2012OPEC oil production (mmb/d)
OPEC % of global production
Source: EIA IEO 2011, OPEC Website, OPEC Annual Report 2009, 2004, PwC Analysis 
8. In the full analysis we developed a much larger range of alternative oil price scenarios, but for clarity of exposition we focus on two representative scenarios in this report.
11
Shale oil – February 2013In both these scenarios, our model suggests a 
global real oil price that is significantly lower  than the EIA reference case projections of around 
$133 per barrel in 2035 - by around 25% in our 
reference case, and by around 40% in our low case (see Chart 5). This corresponds to a real oil price fall of around $33-50 per barrel by 2035 compared to the EIA baseline projection. In our scenarios,  
the oil price falls by proportionately much more 
than the rise in oil supply. This reflects the well-documented empirical finding that oil demand  is relatively insensitive to price changes, based  
on estimates of long-term price elasticities  
in our model drawn from past academic studies
9. 
 Chart 5. Forecast oil price incorporating impact of shale oil production vs. EIA reference case
020406080100120140
EIA reference case oil price
PwC low case (no OPEC response)PwC reference case (OPEC maintain $100/bbl)2035 2030 2025 2020 2015 2010 2005$2010 / bbl
Source: EIA AEO 2012, PwC analysis
9. See, for example, the survey of oil price elasticity of demand estimates in J.D. Hamilton, ‘Understanding Crude Oil Prices’, Department of Economics, University of California, San Diego, May 2008 (Table 3, p.34).
12Shale oil – February 2013The bigger picture  
Global macroeconomic 
impacts of lower oil prices
Lower global oil prices of the magnitude indicated 
by our analysis suggest a major impact on the future evolution of global economy, given the key 
role that oil prices still play. These effects are not 
as great now as in the 1970s when oil price hikes had severe negative impacts on major oil-importing economies, helping to push the UK and many other countries into prolonged periods of 
‘stagflation’, but are nevertheless very significant. 
We have used the National Institute Global 
Econometric Model (NiGEM) to help us understand 
the likely scale of these impacts
10. We have 
explored the consequences of a lower oil price 
across the global economy and for selected major 
national economies covered by the model (in 
particular the US, Japan, Germany, the UK and  the BRICs – Brazil, Russia, India and China). Oil prices play three key roles within the  
NiGEM model:
1. Energy combines with labour and capital  
to produce economic output (as measured  
by GDP). 
2. Import and export prices are modelled as a 
weighted average of commodity and non-
commodity prices. A decrease in the price of oil 
will improve the terms of trade for a net oil 
importer, and conversely see them deteriorate for a net oil exporter.
3. Oil prices are directly and indirectly linked  
to consumer prices. Lower oil prices will generally boost consumer spending power, especially in net oil importing economies.
10.  NiGEM is a global econometric model developed by the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR), one of the UK’s longest established and most respected economic research institutes. Central banks, finance 
ministries and leading companies around the world use the NiGEM model. It enables them to understand the likely impacts of major economic shocks and how a range of macro-economic variables may react and adjust over time.  
However, it should be noted that the analysis in this report and the interpretation of the results is the sole responsibility of PwC, which has a licence to use NiGEM, rather than of NIESR.
13
Shale oil – February 2013We have used NiGEM to model the impact of the 
two different scenarios considered above – namely a decrease of either $33 or $50 in real global oil 
prices, phased in over two decades (the maximum 
time horizon of the model
11). The model indicates 
that the level of global GDP could be between 2.3% and 3.7% higher at the end of the projection period 
(see Chart 6). At today’s GDP values, this is 
equivalent to an increase in the size of the global economy of around $1.7-2.7 trillion per annum. This could imply a rise by 2035 in average global GDP per person of between $230 and $370 per 
annum (at today’s prices) relative to the EIA 
baseline case with minimal shale oil production. Chart 6. Global economic benefits from a lower oil price (% of world GDP)
01234
$50 real oil price fall $33 real oil price fall2032 2028 2024 2020 2016 2012
Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM
11.  Strictly speaking the NiGEM model projections therefore end in 2032, but in the text we generally refer to these effects as relating to 2035 for consistency with our global oil price modelling and that of the EIA in their baseline 
projection. Looking so far ahead, the difference between potential effects in 2032 and 2035 is, in any event, not likely to be at all material compared to the uncertainties surrounding any such projections.
14Shale oil – February 2013Winners and losers by country
Clear ‘winners’ emerge when considering the 
impact at a national level. India and Japan,  for example, could under these scenarios see  
an increase in GDP of between 4% and 7% by  
the end of the projection period (see Chart 7).  Other net oil importers such as the US, China, Germany and the UK could also see GDP gains  of the order of 2-5% of GDP in the long term due  
to lower global oil prices relative to a baseline  with minimal shale oil. Chart 7. Change in national GDP in oil price scenarios (relative to baseline)
-4%-2%0%2%4%6%8%
$50 real oil price fall $33 real oil price fallWorld Russia Brazil China UK Eurozone US Germany Japan IndiaDifference with base case in final year 
(% difference)
Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM
15
Shale oil – February 2013At the other end of the spectrum, the model shows 
that some major net oil producers could see their current account balances deteriorate significantly 
as a result of lower oil prices (see Chart 8 for 
Russia and the Middle East). However, the NiGEM model takes no account of which particular countries will be producers of shale oil. And Russia could limit its projected losses were it to exploit its 
estimated resources, the largest in the world.
A lower oil price acts as a boost to consumers’ real 
disposable income similar to an indirect tax cut, 
with a consequent positive effect on real household 
spending levels. In Japan, for example, the model results suggest a fall of $50 in the real oil price could increase private consumption per head at the end of the projection period by the equivalent of 
more than $3,000 per year (when compared to the 
EIA baseline with minimal shale oil production). Gains in the US and the Eurozone would also be significant, although net gains to UK consumers would be lower in part because there are also 
losses on existing North Sea oil and gas revenues  
if global energy prices fall (see Chart 9).
 Chart 8. Change in current account balance as % of GDP in alternative oil price scenarios
-12%-10%-8%-6%-4%-2%0%2%4%
Russia Middle 
EastGermany India UK Brazil China Eurozone US JapanDifference with base case in final year 
(% difference)
$50 real oil price fall $33 real oil price fall
Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM
Chart 9. Change in real household consumption in alternative oil scenarios
0%2%4%6%8%10%12%
UK Eurozone US JapanDifference with base case in final year 
(% difference)
$50 real oil price fall $33 real oil price fall
Source: PwC Analysis using NiGEM
16Shale oil – February 2013Opportunities and challenges  
For governments and companies
The possibility of increases in 
shale oil production and the potential macroeconomic impact raises challenging questions for all stakeholders in the energy industry:• Governments in current net oil importing 
countries with potential shale oil resource will need to understand the likely economic 
payback from creating policies to encourage 
exploitation of shale oil (both on its own and relative to other unconventional resources). 
 –With a lower oil price, the financial investment 
case for renewables becomes relatively less 
attractive; governments will have important choices to make as to how to realise the benefits from shale oil production in a way 
that balances potentially conflicting objectives 
of energy affordability and decarbonisation. For example, if oil prices are lower than expected due to shale oil, governments could keep fossil fuel taxes higher than 
would otherwise be acceptable and recycle 
the proceeds from this into, for example, funding for R&D for low carbon technologies.  –Shale oil could displace other new oil supply sources that could be argued to have higher associated environmental costs, such as the Arctic and Canadian tar sands. The potential 
environmental impact of shale oil is complex 
and there will be challenging regulatory, fiscal and other policy decisions for governments to make in this area over  the coming years and decades.
• Governments in OPEC nations and other major net oil exporters need to assess the likely impact of shale oil on global oil prices and their own revenues, budgets and economies. 
They need to consider how best to respond in 
terms of potentially limiting growth in oil production to counteract the potential price effects of increased production outside OPEC. Another priority may be the mitigation of the 
long-term impacts on governments’ revenues 
more generally of oil prices below current projections. Where feasible, they also need  to consider pursuing their own shale oil exploration and production options.
• Oil companies  have to assess their current 
portfolios and planned projects against lower  
oil price scenarios. They need to understand  
the likely impacts of lower oil prices on the 
investment case for high cost projects.  
In addition, they need to review their business models and skills in the light of shale oil’s industrialised production process which makes 
very different demands of operators than 
today’s remote and challenging locations. 
17 Shale oil – February 2013• Businesses that support national and 
international oil companies with services and equipment need to consider the 
implications for their strategy and operating 
model as their clients shift focus from offshore to onshore operations with very different implications for the services and capabilities required. Already many IOCs are staring to 
invest in shale oil exploration and production 
outside the US, including sites in China, Argentina, Australia and Russia. 
• Major downstream operations, such as refineries and petrochemical plants, which rely on oil and oil products, need to consider new sources of supply and the potential for lower feedstock prices, both of which may influence 
the performance of existing assets and 
investment decisions in new ones. 
• More generally, companies across the economy which rely on oil and related 
products  (e.g. plastics, airlines, road haulage, 
automotive manufacturers and heavy industry 
more generally) could see significant favourable shifts in their cost structures over the next couple of decades. These will need to be 
factored into longer term business planning 
and investment appraisal decisions.Conclusions
The potential availability and accessibility of significant reserves of shale oil around the globe - and the 
potential effect of increased shale oil 
production in limiting growth in global oil prices - has implications that stretch far beyond the oil industry.
At a global level, shale oil has the 
potential to reshape the global economy, increasing energy security, independence and affordability in the long term. 
However, these benefits need to be 
squared with broader environmental objectives at both the local and global level. Consequent changes in policy  and regulatory regimes will have 
important knock-on effects on oil 
producers and consumers.The effects of a lower oil price resonate along the entire energy value chain, and investment choices based on long-term 
predictions of a steady increase in real  
oil prices may need to be reassessed.  The potential magnitude of the impact  of shale oil makes it a profound force for change in energy markets and the wider 
global economy. It is therefore critical for 
companies and policy-makers to consider the strategic implications of these changes now.
We would be happy to arrange individual 
meetings to discuss the results of our research in more detail and to help  you consider what it might mean for  
your organisation.
18Shale oil – February 2013Contacts
Adam Lyons  
Director – PwC
Tel: +44 (0)20 7804 3175 
Mob: +44 (0)7850 907625 Email: Adam Lyons@uk.pwc.com
Adam has 20 years’ experience in the 
oil and gas sector strategy, having worked with global companies in the 
Upstream and Midstream and 
Downstream parts of the value chain, as well as oilfield services.
Adam leads engagements focusing  
on strategy development and implementation, competitor and market assessment, technology strategy, mergers and acquisitions, 
due diligence and corporate 
integration and separation.
Adam has worked on projects in 
Western Europe, Eastern Europe and 
the former Soviet Union, Africa and North America. This has provided wide industry exposure to the various perspectives and challenges of major 
international oil and gas companies, 
independents, infrastructure developers and oil and gas services companies, as well as investors.John Hawksworth  Chief UK economist – PwC
Tel: +44 (0)20 7213 1650  
Email: John.c.hawksworth@uk.pwc.com
John Hawksworth specialises in global 
macroeconomics and public policy issues. He is Chief Economist in PwC’s 
UK firm, editor of our Economic 
Outlook reports and lead author of our ‘World in 2050’ on long-term prospects for the world economy. 
He is also the author of many other 
reports and articles on macroeconomic and public policy topics and a regular media commentator on these issues. 
He has carried out economic 
consultancy assignments for a wide range of public and private sector organisations both in the UK and 
overseas over the past 20 years.Michael Hurley  
Partner – PwC
Tel: +44 (0)20 780 44465 
Mob: +44 (0)7710 319445 Email: michael.hurley@uk.pwc.com
Michael Hurley is a Partner at PwC 
with over 20 years’ experience within the  energy sector. He is the global 
leader of the Energy Utilities and 
Infrastructure strategy team and has directed a large number of assignments globally for major  energy companies and governments.
Michael is a regular speaker at 
industry forums globally, including recently at CERA-week, at the World 
Petroleum Congress in Doha and for 
the World Energy Council. Prior to joining PwC Michael was a UK government advisor, responsible for 
regulatory and commercial advice 
covering upstream oil and gas activities in the North Sea. William Zimmern Senior manager– PwC
Tel: +44 (0)20 7212 2750 
Mob: +44 (0)7730 146 351 Email: william.zimmern@uk.pwc.com
William is a Senior Manager in  
PwC’s Economics Consulting practice in London. He specialises in 
macroeconomic modelling and 
economic strategy for clients in  the public and private sectors.
He has worked with a range of 
multinational and public sector clients on economics, investment, valuation and strategic issues. He works cross sector and his clients have been some  
of the biggest companies in European 
retail and investment banking, global transportation and global mining.  In the public sector he has worked for 
Beijing Government and Saudi Arabia 
Investment Authority among others.
Before PwC, William worked as a 
senior UK government economist.

PwC UK helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a member of the PwC network of firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people committed to delivering quality in 
assurance, tax and advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com/uk.
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the information contained in this publication without 
obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , its members, employees and agents do not accept or assume any liability, responsibility or duty of care for any consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to 
act, in reliance on the information contained in this publication or for any decision based on it.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP . All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to the UK member firm, and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. 
Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
Designed by The Design Group 21398 (02/13)
www.pwc.co.uk
