Title: pwc_home-improvement-the-building-and-home-products-industry
Date Published: 2013-09-06 15:10:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_home-improvement-the-building-and-home-products-industry.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Home improvement
The building and home 
products industry
www.pwc.in
September 2013
The construction industry  p4/Building and  home products p6


The services sector has, over the last few years, accounted for over 60% of India’s GDP, and 
underpinned a significant share of employment creation and growth. Within this, construction has been important, not just for its direct contribution to GDP, but also because it drives demand for a range of manufactured products, from cement to sanitary-ware. Initiatives from the government to support and stimulate this sector would, therefore, have a positive impact on the economy as a whole, and the manufacturing sector in particular.
Urbanisation has been a growing phenomenon that now extends beyond the metros. The emergence 
of ‘Census Towns’ and the noticeable ‘rurban’ sprawl indicating the shift to the tertiary sector as employment patterns shift, is indicative of changing lifestyles and consumption patterns. Rising income and improvement in standards of living will create demand for products such as ceramic tiles and sanitary-ware. Growth of the urban middle class is likely to drive demand for modular kitchens as well as premium bathroom fittings. Our analysis re-confirms the growing demand for a range of home products.
Despite a general slowdown in the economy, growth in the construction sector remained strong over 
the last two years. Growth in the middle class and the persistence of real estate as a favored store of savings, portend well for real estate construction going forward. In the medium term, with this underlying demand as well as increases in disposable income and consumption, we see potential for continued growth of a range of manufactured products from air conditioning to ceramic tiles and ready-mix concrete.
Our objective, in preparing this report, is to profile trends in the real estate construction industry and 
outline how these will impact demand for certain manufactured products.
Bimal Tanna
Leader, Industrial ProductsPwC IndiaPreface
4 PwC 
 The construction 
industryChapter 1
Introduction
Construction has been a significant contributor to the 
economy, accounting for approximately 8% of the GDP. In FY13, this sector grew at 13.9% (at market prices) over the previous year, marginally increasing its share of GDP. 
After a period of sustained growth, when in seven of the 
previous nine years economic growth exceeded 8% per annum, GDP estimates for the year ended March 2013 (FY13) indicated that year-on-year growth had dropped to a decadal low of 5%
1 economic performance in the first 
few months of FY14 has continued to look weak, leading to concerns related to growth in the short term.
Positives include strong household consumption (real 
growth in household consumption dropped to 4% in 2012, though it was over 12% at market prices), and growth of the middle class continues to drive demand. The National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER) estimates indicate that the middle class grew from 11 million households in FY02 to 31 million households in FY11, and is further expected to grow to 53 million households in FY16 and 114 million households in FY26
2.
The NCAER findings also illustrate the importance of the middle class to consumption of many products. The segment comprises only 13% of India’s population, but owns 49% of cars, 53% of air conditioners and 46% of credit cards in India
3. 
1. The Planning Commission of India2. National Survey of Household Income and Expenditure 2011- National Council for Applied Economic Research3. National Survey of Household Income and Expenditure 2011- National Council for Applied Economic Research   4. Census of India, 2011Figure 1: Construction sector growth and contribution to GDP
Figure 2: Contribution to construction by segment  
Figure 3: Size of the Indian real estate construction segment (INR billion)Real estate construction in India
In the last decade, the country has witnessed a significant growth in demand for housing, driven by growth in income and population; this has stimulated growth of the real estate sector. Typically, commercial and residential construction accounts for 40 to 45% of spend on construction in India. 
Premium real estate construction
An important factor driving the attractiveness of the Indian market is the growing level of urbanisation in India. Urban India accounted for 31.2% of the population in 2011, up from 27.8% in 2001. This implied that the number of urban households grew by over 25 million during that decade. Consequently, this has spurred demand for new housing as well as upgrades to the existing urban infrastructure. 01000200030004000
2820493050006000
2012 20167.9% 8.2% 8.5% 8.5% 8.2% 8.2% 8.1% 8.2%17.4%20.0%20.6%
16.0%
11.0%19.0%
15.1%
13.9%
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 
FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY1343%
Infrastructure     49 %Industrial 
8%
Real estate
Source: “Planning Commission Data Book” Planning Commission and “ Services Sector” – India Budget NICSource: “Report on the Working Group on Construction Sector” - Planning Commission), PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis
Home improvement: The building and home products industry     532%
Market share 
17%
Market share 23%
Market share 
8%
Market share Delhi-NCR
Mumbai
ChennaiBangalor eFigure 4: Premium real estate construction in India (residential 
and commercial)Figure 5: Indian real estate construction project costPremium real estate construction accounts for approximately 7 to 8% of the real estate construction market in India. This segment is concentrated in the major cities, with Mumbai and Delhi alone accounting for approximately 55% of the market. With reports of slowdown in off-take and build up of unsold inventory for premium real estate in certain markets, premium real estate construction could face a slowdown in the next few months.
The value chain
Real estate construction comprises both product and service elements. In a typical project, approximately two thirds of the project value goes into various manufactured items, with the rest spent on services and labour. 
A typical real estate construction project comprises three 
parts: 
• Architectural and  engineering (A&E) design, 
comprising master planning, detailing and structural engineering phases 
• Project management consulting (PMC), pertaining to the activities related to project management 
• Construction, comprising civil works, MEP (mechanical, electrical and plumbing) services and interiors, fit-outs phases 
Household consumption grew over 12% in 2012, at current prices in India . Given India’s potential for growth in the longer term, there is substantial headroom for growth in many such industries.
Trends in real estate construction in India
Within real estate construction in India, international suppliers are sometimes selected for certain aspects of A & E (particularly master planning) and project management. Brand name, reputation, technical know-how and experience are the most common factors driving real estate developers to appoint foreign contractors. In the area of interiors, fit-out and MEP, penetration of international suppliers and contractors is increasing, particularly in the premium space. Real estate developers are beginning to leverage various suppliers for attaining product differentiation. Indian contractors are preferred for construction due to their familiarity with local conditions and ability to manage costs.
Source: Industry discussions, PwC estimatesSource: Industry discussions, PwC analysis
6 PwCBuilding and home 
productsChapter 2
Household consumption grew over 12% in 2012, at 
current prices in India . Given India’s potential for growth in the longer term, there is substantial headroom for growth in many such industries.
Growth in the construction sector has, over the last few 
years, driven growth for a variety of products either used directly in the construction process or complementary to it. The intensity of construction in India is still low in comparison with other countries – this is illustrated by the low per capital usage of key materials used in construction.
Figure 7: Ceramic tiles market segmentation
Figure 8: Ceramic tiles market size and growth (INR billion)Figure 6: Cement consumption per capita in 2011 (In kgs)
In this section we briefly profile the size, growth and key trends for five building and home product industries, where growth is strongly related to the real estate and construction.Ceramic tiles
The Indian ceramic tiles market size is estimated to have been 172 billion INR in 2012 and is expected to reach 301 billion INR by 2016 growing at a CAGR of 15%. The Indian ceramic tiles market ranked third globally and accounted for over 6% of the total global production in 2012. The organised segment makes up approximately 50% of the sector, and the top eight manufacturers constitute over 75% of the organised market
6. A large number of small or 
medium-scale manufacturers operate in the unorganised segment, mainly through plants in Gujarat. Nearly 50% of the market consists of vitrified tiles
7. 
6. India Building Materials - Anand Rathi 7. India Building Materials - Anand Rathi050100150200250300350
2012 2016301
17220%
23% 50%7%
Wall tiles
Floor tiles
Vitrified tiles
Industrial tiles
1852802854801390
1000 1500 05 00IndiaSouth AfricaSouth East Asia World China 
Source: “Indian Cement Industry” - ARC Financial ServicesSource: “Ceramic Tiles Market India “- Netscribes, PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis
Home improvement: The building and home products industry     78. India Building Materials - Anand Rathi
9. Census of India, 201110. Census of India 2011, India Building Materials - Anand RathiFigure 9: Per capita consumption of tiles in sq.metres (2010)
Figure 10: Distribution of houses by floor materialIndia has one of the fastest growing ceramic tiles markets in the world. Per capita consumption of ceramic tiles in India is only 0.4 square meters in comparison to 2.6 square meters in China, and 6.7 square meters in Saudi Arabia
8  
indicating substantial scope for further growth. The ceramic tiles market is driven by rapid urbanisation  and a taste for high-end tiles. The increasing share of pucca houses (i.e. of solid and durable construction; typically of concrete, brick, stone or timber) in India and the growing share of tiles used as flooring material. The share of pucca households is expected to increase from 63% in 2011 to 79% in 2021
9. The share of tiles used in 
floor material has increased from 7% in 2001 to over 10% in 2011, and is expected to reach 16% by 2021
10.  
Trends in the ceramic tiles market in India
•	Introduction	of	nanotechnology: Use of nanotechnology helps enhance the shelf life and strength of the tile and can make tiles resistant to dirt and bacteria. These tiles are gaining popularity in areas where hygiene is important, such as hospitals, laboratories, food processing plants, etc.   
•	Eco-friendly	tiles: Usage of eco-friendly tiles is expected to increase as consumers become more environment-conscious. Recycled eco-friendly tiles are usually made from natural and renewable substances.
•	Designer	tiles	and	introduction	of	3-D	tiles: Titles are now becoming a style statement and are used for bedroom and living room walls as well. 3D tiles are also being used for outdoor cladding, wall cladding, elevation, etc.
•	Shift	towards	vitrified	tiles: Vitrified tiles, comprising nearly 50% of the ceramic tiles market have witnessed robust growth in the last five years with increasing demand due to their high durability and easy maintenance.
Sanitary-ware and bathroom fittings
The sanitary-ware and bathroom fittings industry in India together is estimated to be valued around  60 billion INR. The sanitary-ware segment is estimated to have been worth approximately 20 billion INR while the bathroom fittings segment is estimated at approximately 40 billion INR in 2012.  The Indian sanitary-ware market accounts for 8% of the global production and ranks second  in terms of volume in the Asia-Pacific region.
68%
57%
48%
38%5%
8%
10%
12%19%
26%
30%
33%7% 8%11%
16%1% 1% 1% 1%
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
1991 2001 2011 2021 e
Mud Wood, bamboo, brick, stone Cement
Mosaic, floor tiles Any other material0.42.52.62.83.13.63.84.46.7
IndiaEgyptChinaMalaysiaSpainBrazilVietnamIranSaudi Arabia
0 4 2 6 8Wall tiles
Floor tilesVitrified tilesIndustrial tiles
Source: “Ceramic Tiles Market India “- Netscribes, 
Source: Census of India, “India Building Materials” - Anand Rathi
8 PwC11. India Building Materials - Anand Rathi, PwC analysis
12. Sanitaryware Market in India 2012 - NetscribesThe sanitary-ware market has been growing at a CAGR of 12.5% since 2010, and this trend is expected to continue through 2016. The organised segment currently comprises 60% (approximately) of the sector. The bathroom fittings market is  forecast to grow at a CAGR of 15% until 2016. The organised segment makes up almost 45%
11 of the 
market, and is growing faster than the industry average.
While the organised sector focuses mainly on middle class 
and affluent segments in urban areas, the unorganised sector has, by and large, targeted the mass end of the urban market and the rural areas. With relatively strong demand growth in India over the last five years, various MNCs have entered the market.
Figure 11: Sanitary-ware market size and growth (INR billion)
Figure 12: Bathroom fittings market size and growth (INR billion)There is a significant growth potential in the in the low-cost or entry-level segment. One in every five urban households, and an even higher proportion of rural households, do not have a bathroom or latrine emphasising on the tremendous potential to expand with rising incomes and pucca houses.    
Compared with other countries, replacement demand is 
low in India, and accounts for only 7% of the market
12.  
Other factors such as increasing disposable incomes, higher standards of living, and increasing expenditure on beautifying homes and using premium products provide a further impetus to the growth of this segment.
4070
01020304050607080
2012 20162032
05101520253035
2012 2016
Source: PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis"As per the Census data, 19% of 
urban homes do not have a toilet"

Home improvement: The building and home products industry     913. Modular Kitchen Market in India 2010 -Netscribes ReportFigure 13: Modular kitchen market size and growth (INR billion)
Figure 14: Share of organised and unorganised segment in the 
modular kitchen marketTrends in the sanitaryware and the bathroom fittings market 
•	Complete	bathroom	solutions: Due to the rising popularity of concept washrooms and coordinated sanitary-ware, fittings and accessories, some manufacturers are offering a one-stop shop solution for all sanitary-ware and fittings requirements. The in-store experience has grown in importance, and manufacturers have established 'Experience-Centers', 
which are one-stop shops where a customer can view a 
virtual version of their bathrooms, post renovation. 
•	Water	conservation	technology: Bathrooms constitute the primary source of water and water usage. With increasing environmental awareness, customers 
are moving towards eco-friendly sanitary-ware and 
bathroom fittings that help in the conservation of water. These eco-friendly products offer a 20% savings in water as compared with other products. Solutions such as high efficiency flushing systems, infrared controls, and sensor taps and showers are gaining popularity. 
•	Increasing	presence	of	foreign	players: Initially, domestic players dominated the market in this segment. However, foreign players are gaining popularity as more and more customers wish to purchase imported products. There have been some tie ups between foreign players and domestic players in this segment. 
•	Rise	in	premium	segment	products: Indian customers are gradually purchasing more premium and high technology products for their bathrooms due to increase in the spending power. The premium segment is estimated to comprise about 10 to12% of the total market. 
Modular kitchens
The modular kitchen market in India has been growing at a rapid rate, albeit from a low base. According to industry experts, the market was approximately 21 billion INR in size in 2012, and could grow to about  60 billion INR by 2016. The market is largely unorganised with the presence of local and small players. The unorganised market (estimated at 70 to 75% of the total) includes carpenters making custom-designed kitchens based upon the requirements of the households. Modular kitchens account for an estimated 20% of the organised home interior market
13. Modular kitchens are largely focused towards the middle-class and affluent households in urban India and offerings are based on functional practicality, design and appeal. Increase in the number of nuclear families, rise in the number of working couples, higher disposable income, and increased affordability of such offerings are all factors that have driven awareness levels and increased demand for modular kitchens. Owing to their compact design, modular kitchens provide effective space management and hence are preferred over traditional kitchen designs.
The growing hospitality sector and increase in demand 
for ‘service apartments’ has also boosted sales of modular kitchens. Service apartments generally prefer modular kitchens because of their sleek design and standardisation.
There has also been a  surge in demand from Tier 2 cities 
and smaller towns resulting in expansion and foray of major brands into these towns.They account for only about 10% of the overall kitchen 
equipment and furniture industry. Thus, there is scope for the modular kitchens market to grow. 
30%
70%Organised segment
Unorganised segment2160
010203040506070
2012 2016Source: PwC analysis
Source: “Modular Kitchen Market in India” - Netscribes

10 PwCTrends in the modular kitchen market in 
India
•	European	design: There has been an increase in the demand of European style modular kitchens as the design is seen to be clutter-free, trendy and modern and the colour palette is subtle compared to Indian kitchens.
•	Key	convenience	and	trendy	features: Incorporated lighting, soft closing doors and high end accessories 
have become common in modular kitchens in India. 
The current trend includes handle-less doors, soft closing drawers, top open-able glass doors, rust proof and grease resistant counter tops, water-proof cabinets and built-in appliances. Pastel shades and wooden 
finish kitchens are the fastest growing trends in the 
modular kitchen segment.
•	New	players: Several European companies (particularly from Italy, Germany and Austria) as well as the Middle East have recently entered the Indian market. 
•	Tie-ups: Companies engaged in the modular kitchen segment are setting up joint ventures with international players who are engaged in the similar line of business. Domestic players benefit from the technological expertise provided by international players. International players are entering the market through tie-ups with domestic firms for the distribution of their products in India.
Air-conditioning and cooling systems
As per our estimates, the air-conditioning and cooling systems market in India is currently worth INR 155 billion, and is projected to grow at a CAGR of 12% through to 2016. The growth in this segment has however witnesses a recent slowdown. The air-conditioning and cooling systems market can be bifurcated into three segments: 
• Room segment (consists of wall units) 
• Commercial segment (retail outlets, dairy, 
pharmaceutical, chemicals, etc) 
• Project segment (office complexes, malls, metro rail, airports, hotels, etc)
The room segment accounts for the largest share, with over 45% of the revenue coming from this segment.Figure 15: Air-conditioning and cooling market size and growth (INR billion)
Figure 16: Share of different segments in the air-conditioning and cooling market
Project
Room
Commercial155244
050100150200250300
2012 2016
Source: PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis16%45% 39%
Home improvement: The building and home products industry     1114. Changing Landscape of Indian Retail - Jones Lang LaSalle  
15. Cement Production India - Emerging Market Insights 16. Cement Production India- Emerging Market Insights 17. Investor Presentation - ACC Figure 17: Cement production in India (MTPA)Despite high sales in the room air-conditioning segment in India, penetration of the product is very low, with only 3.8% of households owning an air conditioner. This presents an opportunity for the industry to exploit. Increase in penetration will aid sustained growth momentum. 
Growth in the project air-conditioning segment is expected 
to come from increased investment activities from sectors such as hospitality, power, etc. The railway segment is expected to contribute significantly to the growth due to capacity addition in the sector and construction of metro rail in eight locations across India. 
In the commercial segment, the need for quality 
infrastructure in  various sectors is expected to drive growth. The organised retail industry is expected  to add over 100 million square feet by 2015
14, and this presents an 
opportunity for the air conditioning industry. Investments in the cold chain and food processing industries will directly benefit the commercial air conditioning segment. 
Trends in the air-conditioning market
•	Price	increase	and	currency	devaluation	impact:	Drop in the value of the rupee, since January 2013 has resulted in higher costs for air conditioner manufacturers in India, since many of the components are imported. Further price increases, stemming from continued fall in the value of the rupee, could impact demand and growth of the industry in the short term.
•	Green	solutions: Since consumers are growing more environment conscious, companies are introducing air conditioning technologies that reduce emissions of HFCs and CO2. India is one of the first countries, to have introduced HC-290 and HFC-32 air conditioners, which are more efficient and economical. 
•	Energy	efficient	air-conditioning: There is a focus on energy-efficient air conditioners. Several companies have introduced air-conditioners endowed with inverter technology that has a shorter motor run-time and therefore consumes less electricity. Star rating for energy consumption is also followed in India. 
•	All-year	functionality: Some companies are trying to de-risk the AC business and make their products more weatherproof by adding new features. These include an all-weather AC with heating feature that can be used in the winter.•	Financing	and	purchase	options: AC manufacturers are looking to bring ACs within the reach of a much larger percentage of the population. Finance driven sales are estimated at between 25 and 30% of total sales of room air conditioners. 
•	Growth	in	variable	refrigerant	volume	systems: Faster growth of VRV systems and inverter based air-conditioning solutions has been witnessed.
Cement and ready-mix concrete
India is the second largest cement manufacturer in the world after China, accounting for about 7% of global production
16. Cement production in India is a 
fragmented industry with more than 150 players in the market. However, the top 10 producers of cement control approximately 60% of the domestic market
17.
Since cement is a bulky commodity, that is expensive to transport, the market is regional in nature. The market is divided into five main regions; northern, eastern, western, southern and central. The southern region has the highest installed capacity. The eastern region faces a demand-supply gap, which will lead to capacity additions.
The housing sector is the main driver of demand for 
cement manufacturing, with approximately 68% of cement production directed towards housing construction
18. 240316
050100150200250300350
2012 2016Project
RoomCommercial
Source: PwC analysis 
12 PwC19. Indian Cement Industry - ARC Financial Services  
20. Project Profile on Ready Mix Concrete Plant in Kerala - Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation 21. Projects info22. India Cement ReviewDespite India being the second largest cement manufacturer in the world, the per capita consumption for cement, at 185 kg per annum, is well below the world average of 480 kg
19. The low per capita consumption 
indicates the potential for growth in the cement industry in India.
Recently the cement industry is witnessing a slowdown 
due to subdued capital investments in the industrial sector and delays in execution of infrastructure projects.
Figure 19: Cost break-up of RMC Figure 18: Cement production by variety 
Ready-mix concrete 
Ready-mix concrete in India is still in a nascent stage as it consumes only around 5% of the total cement production. In developed nations, RMC accounts for up to 80% of cement production
20. 
The current market size of RMC is estimated at  50 billion INR to 60 billion INR
21. Current production of RMC is 
around 15 to 20 million cubic meters a year, and in terms of volume, the market is growing at the rate of 25 to 30%
22. Since the demand for RMC is expected to grow 
significantly over the next few years, several players have forayed into the segment.
Though the penetration of RMC is higher in the 
metropolitan cities as compared to all the India average, there is scope for further penetration of RMC in smaller cities due to expected infrastructure development.
At present, there are approximately 380 ready mix 
concrete plants in India.Challenges in the ready-mix concrete segment
•	Higher	costs: Ready-mix concrete is slightly more expensive than site mixed concrete due to transportation costs and usage of additives. However, in the long run, it is expected that increase in the usage of RMC will lead to more cost savings as there is a decrease in overall wastage on usage of RMC. 
An additional cost factor is the cost of setting up a plant near the construction site. Since RMC cannot be transported over long distances, the plant needs to be within two hours travel distance of the travel site; high real estate prices in urban areas increase the cost of setting up or operating an RMC plant. On the other hand, increasing urban congestion makes the use of RMC more attractive vis-à-vis site-mix as there is less pollution and noise at the construction site.
•	Sand	availability: Due to the recent ban on illegal 
mining of sand and depletion of sand resources, sand prices have increased substantially in the past few months. In some cities, the prices of sand have increased over 50% in the last year. 
•	Transportation: The materials for RMC are mixed at a central plant, so the travelling time from the plant to the site is critical. Some sites are far away and RMC has a limited time span before it hardens. Transportation time for RMC should ideally not exceed two hours. 
•	Taxes: Taxation is another major deterrent since RMC manufacturers have to pay VAT on the concrete, which is not applicable for SMC. Cement
Coarse aggregate
Cost of production
Manufactured sand
Taxes
Transportation (12.5 km)
AdditivesOrdinary portland cement
Portland blast furnance slag
Portland pozzolana cement
Others37%
16%14%14%10%7%2%
32.26%
6.60%
60.79%0.36%
Source: “India Cement Sector Report” -  Emerging Markets Insight – India Source: “Ready Mix Concrete Business: Operational vs Strategic Choices” - IIM Kozhikode 
Home improvement: The building and home products industry     13Bibliography 
Planning Commission Data Book - Planning Commission
Services Sector - India Budget NICReport on Working Group on Construction Sector - Construction Industry Development CouncilCeramic Tiles Market in India - NetscribesModular Kitchen Market in India - NetscribesCensus of India 2011
India Building Materials - Anand Rathi
World Steel Figures 2012 - World Steel Association
Indian Cement Industry - ARC Financial Services
Air Conditioning Sector - Just Chill - Emkay GlobalIndia Cement Sector Update - Tata ResearchIndia Cement Sector Report - Emerging Markets Insight - IndiaReady Mix Concrete Business: Operational vs Strategic Choices - IIM Kozhikode
Acknowledgements
Abhishek KakarGayathri PattnamJharna AhujaKanchan ParmarMalvika SinghMuneetpal Singh JollySujata S ChakrabortyCement
Coarse aggregate
Cost of production
Manufactured sand
Taxes
Transportation (12.5 km)
Additives
About Big 5 Construct India
The Big 5 Construct India is a trade event for construction and building 
products. The launch edition of The Big 5 Construct India features official pavilions from Italy, Germany, UK, Spain, Turkey, Korea, Canada & China.  We also have individual exhibitors from UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Singapore, Thailand, Greece, France, Portugal, Australia, Iran, US, Japan, Malaysia & Vietnam, not to mention the India which is well represented with more than 100 companies.
A wide range of products, services and solutions can be found on the show 
floor. Visit the different stands to see the products live in action and discover how they can make a difference to your operations.
About PwC 
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  
We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: 
Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each 
member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
Bimal	Tanna
Leader - Industrial Productsbimal.tanna@in.pwc.com
Dushyant	Singh
Associate Director - Strategydushyant.singh@in.pwc.com
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0: For external use only
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 71 - August 2013 Home improvement.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
