Title: pwc_it-print
Date Published: 2013-02-04 16:25:28+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_it-print.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Leveraging IT
Transforming the T&L sector
www.pwc.in

2
PwCIndian transportation and logistics (T&L): An overview                     04
IT interventions in the sector                                                                          07
Key initiatives undertaken by the government                                        13
Leveraging emerging technologies                                                               14Table of contents
3
Leveraging ITIn recent years, great emphasis has been laid on enhancing the supply chain 
efficiency on road as well as off road. The government has also taken key initiatives 
to support the transportation and logistics sector in order to ensure that this sector 
contributes to the growth of the economy. 
Before investing in the country, foreign investors assess the infrastructure, most 
importantly the transportation and logistics sector. In addition, the user community 
of the sector has expectations from service providers in terms of order management, 
material handling, real-time tracking and tracing, automated workflow based 
documentation, warehousing, material delivery and the electronic payment facility 
by service providers. 
PwC believes that IT has a big role to play in improving the efficiency of the supply 
chain and also meeting the ever-rising expectations of the user community. Though 
the penetration of IT in the Indian transportation and logistics sector has been 
quite low, there are huge opportunities to leverage it for the benefit of not only the 
logistics companies but also the consumer.
In an increasingly technology-driven environment, transportation and logistics 
companies need to adopt technology solutions that not only align themselves to the 
organisation’s business needs but also help them achieve growth and efficiencies. 
To achieve competitive advantage, these companies need to leverage emerging 
technologies and best practices. They also need to adopt innovative ways of 
analysing data and tracking business performance parameters. It is important to 
manage organisational changes to create a culture that motivates employees during 
the implementation of these technologies.
PwC as a knowledge partner with CII is proud to publish this thought leadership. 
Rachna Nath
Executive Director
IT Effectiveness

4
PwCThe growth in T&L is primarily dependent on 
the growth of goods across different sectors 
within the country and goods traded with 
other countries. The figure shown above 
provides the total trade in rupee terms over 
the last five years.  As such, the index of 
industrial production (IIP) is a good indicator 
of the level of domestic industrial activity. 
India’s manufacturing sector supported by a 
consuming population of more than one billion 
has shown robust growth over the past decade. 
The logistics performance index ranking 
provided by the World Bank ranks India 46th 
among 155 countries . The main indicators 
of the LPI are the efficiency of the clearance process (speed, simplicity and predictability 
of formalities) by border-control agencies, including customs, the quality of trade- and 
transport-related infrastructure (ports, railroads, roads, information technology), the ease of 
arranging competitively, priced shipments, the competence and quality of logistics, services 
(transport operators, customs, brokers) and the ability to track and trace consignments. 
India ranks behind China at rank 1 and Brazil at rank 45 among the BRIC group.
There is a long way to be covered by this sector to reach global standards which would include 
excellent infrastructure and highly technology driven seamlessly integrated supply chain.Indian transportation and logistics (T&L)
An overview
The Indian logistics market has evolved from traditional transport companies to a 
full-fledged logistics service provider, offering various supply chain services such as 
transportation, warehousing and other value additions. 
In comparison to other developing 
and developed countries, Indian 
logistics competitiveness has been 
low primarily due to the following:
 -Poor infrastructure
 -Low technology penetration
 -Low regulatory effectiveness
 -Fragmented industry 
participation
5
Leveraging ITLogistics service providers
PwC views the logistics industry in two verticals where one vertical provides transportation 
solutions through various modes and the other provides complete supply chain solutioning 
with facilities like 3 PL, inventory management, and other value-added services.
Road transport has emerged as the dominant segment in India’s transportation sector  
with a share of around 5% in India’s GDP in comparison to railways which has around 
1% share in the GDP in 2010-11 . Easy accessibility, flexibility of operations, door-to-door 
service and reliability have earned road transport an increasingly higher share of both 
passenger and freight traffic vis-à-vis other transport modes .
The 3 PL market which demonstrates the consolidation and advancement of logistics 
players in terms of breadth of service is still nascent in India. It makes up for more than 
50% of the logistics market in developed markets, but is still at a growing stage in India . 
Today, Indian 3 PL service companies often do not possess sufficient capabilities to provide 
services beyond conventional transportation contracts. Many are not able to respond to 
the increasing demand for value-added services such as customs clearance, cross docking, 
reverse logistics, labelling or packaging.
Sector challenges
• A road carrier has to stop at numerous locations for the physical verification of documents. 
The checks are essentially made to ensure that taxes in the state of destination have been 
paid, trucks are not overloaded, comply with safety stipulations and carry valid papers. This 
issue is more amplified by the presence of segregated sales tax administration, multiple 
laws and a manual and segregated vehicle registration system. 
• T&L and in particular warehousing, is a capital-intensive sector characterised by low 
margins. This has its effect in the expansion plans of the numerous logistics players.  
• There is acute shortage of trained manpower in the T&L sector. The present workforce 
does not have the requisite skills to handle the entire supply chain and training of 
personnel will be key to the success of players.
6
PwC• The unorganised nature of the industry (especially in road transport) and skill shortage 
has further led to non-standardised operating procedures with its inherent inefficiency.
• Paucity of funds discourages operators from investing in technological upgradation of 
vehicles, including adopting energy efficiency standards as well as IT tools like vehicle 
and consignment tracking using Global Positioning System (GPS) and Radio Frequency 
Identification (RFID) technologies.
T&L is mired with many such issues and overcoming these is key for its next stage. 
Technology has the potential to solve some of these challenges and help the sector leapfrog. 
Technology and business
Technology adoption is driven by two primary factors--increasing internal efficiency which 
is the operational aspect and increasing external business responsiveness dependent on a 
complete supply chain based on business strategy and long term planning.
Technology can bridge the business vision with real-time operational activities of business. 
It can help enable the following:
• Synchronisation, thus increasing the effectiveness of strategic decisions and improving 
the efficiency of operations
• Agility, which helps increase flexibility with strategic decision-making and  
standardisation of operational  applications
Source: PwC Technology Forecast
7
Leveraging ITIT interventions in the sector
Technology in the logistics and supply chain industry is a blend of delivering global 
business solutions to local geographies.  With businesses crisscrossing across private and 
public houses, the user community of the sector perceives this business as a combination 
of infrastructure and operations where technology plays the role of glue.  
We believe that organisations have started looking at the transportation and logistics 
function as critical and differentiating rather than a business-enabling or support function. 
While the larger players with deep pockets have made steady inroads in investment in 
this function, the smaller, family or proprietor-driven firms as in India are yet to make 
significant investment around technology and talent in this function. 
Given the global challenges, rising fuel prices and the constant demand for near-perfect 
delivery, the role of information and how it can assist a leaner and smarter logistics 
function has never been more important than now. 
Therefore, what should be the role of the CIO in the logistics and supply chain industry? 
We view this role in three dimensions:
•	Accelerate  the efforts to help optimise operations and improve customer connect 
•	Adapt  emerging technologies to drive continuity and costs
•	Action  the people agenda
In order to make the transition from the current state to the desired state, transportation 
and logistics organisations will go through the following stages of evolution on the 
technology roadmap.
Increase in IT adoption has provided a boost to the growth and maturity of logistics players 
in India wherever it is not only implemented but also institutionalised in daily activities. 
India’s T&L technology market is growing steadily, with the upswing in demand from 
the thriving logistics, retail, pharma, agri and manufacturing sectors, as well as through 
government promotion.
The growth of India as a major sourcing nation for the world’s 
leading retailers is also ramping up demand for appropriate 
information technology intervention. This  ensures seamless flow 
of information across the complete supply chain and also provide 
relevant data for business analytics.
Some of the other key benefits observed with IT intrusion are detailed in below section. 
These benefits have driven the companies to implement relevant IT in their organisation 
are reaping the fruits with IT as differentiator in their sustainable growth plan.
8
PwCIT plays multiple roles in the Indian logistics sector. However, its primary objective is to 
enforce and cleanse internal hygiene and manage operations with increased efficiency. 
IT also plays conventional roles such as increasing productivity and standardisation of 
information management. 
Other key benefits of IT as envisaged by the CIO of the T&L companies are as follows:
• Increasing customer account management, relationship and accessibility 
• Integration of off-road and on-road movement of consignment and vehicle
• Real-time tracking and tracing of consignment and vehicles off-road and on-road
• Standardisation of processes and improving process efficiency
• Reducing labour costs and handling fuel and sales management costs
• Increasing transparency and accountability within the organisation
• Quick response and access of informationBenefits of IT interventions
Key IT interventions
With this view, PwC suggests the  indicative target operating model for cargo 
transportation and logistics company as  shown below. It maps key users, communication 
mechanism, and the widely used and accepted technologies by the industry in order to 
achieve the objectives defined above. We understand that to optimise operations and improve customer 
interactions , IT needs to focus on some of the following aspects :
• Making systems flexible to allow implementation of business 
transformation easier
• Increasing the efficiency of key value points across the supply chain to 
reduce costs and delays 
• Integration of key stakeholders in the value chain so that information 
can be consolidated and shared across the value chain for better 
visibility and execution  
9
Leveraging ITIndicative IT  target operating model for cargo transportation and logistics companies
Enterprise	resource	planning	(ERP):	 PwC considers ERP as a hygiene factor. ERP not 
only integrates the corporate and business functions of an organisation enabling them 
to communicate and share information, but also provides  great opportunities to the 
companies to redefine their internal processes with global best practices. 
Warehouse	management	system	(WMS):	 This is an end-to-end solution for warehouse 
management that links different systems such as computerised vehicle routing, scheduling 
packages and integrated supply chain systems to monitor incoming goods, customer 
orders and stock levels. Efficient storage and movement of goods can be accomplished by 
such a system. The implementation of this system depends on the number of integration 
points, size and complexity of the supply chain.
The need for WMS is completely dependent on the complexity (in terms of size and volume) 
of warehousing operations and throughput efficiency (in terms of operational productivity):
• For service providers with small warehouses in cities or towns that cater to  local 
distributors and suppliers, traditional ways of managing operations and tracking 
inventory is preferable.

10
PwC10 PwC• For service providers operating at a regional level,  who have significantly large 
operations with considerable volumes mini WMS solutions are available that are good 
in managing inbound and outbound operations. They also help manage and track 
inventory levels. Organisations using various ERPs can also extend their ERP systems 
and use a WMS module that will help resolve integration challenges. Such solutions 
can be customised and are also easy on the pocket.
RFID:	 Tracking and tracing  vehicles, consignments, containers and other equipment at all 
locations i.e, on or off road is very important for transportation and logistics companies. 
The people who use their services have also started demanding real time tracking of 
the movement of their consignments. The radio frequency identification devices (RFID) 
address this need. For timely delivery of consignments, RFID along with vehicle tracking 
systems  track the location of vehicles. These RFID readers and tracking devices can be 
integrated with ERP and WMS as required. NHAI and the ministry of road transport 
and highways are also working in this direction to manage toll collections with the 
implementation of RFID to ensure faster movement of vehicles at toll gates. 
Fleet	management	system:	 This is being slowly accepted by the transporters for 
managing their fleet of vehicles and other material handling devices including cranes. 
Such systems help the companies  track and control the maintenance cost of their vehicles 
and equipment. Some of the companies have initiated building profit and loss sheets per 
vehicle using this system. These systems can also be integrated with ERP and RFID systems 
for seamless flow of information.
Scheduling	systems:	 Manual vehicle planning and routing has been a challenge for  
transport companies. Few companies have implemented computerised vehicle and 
scheduling systems with complete data pertaining to consignee and consignor. This has 
resulted in the accurate and efficient scheduling along with better vehicle utilisation on 
road. It is observed that this automated routing has tremendously increased the service 
delivery efficiency resulting in higher customer satisfaction. 
Few of the other technologies useful for transportation and 
logistics companies are as follows: 
• Hand held devices for managing proof of delivery
• Satellite navigation systems to accurately locate the 
consignee or  consignor locations
• Scanners and other security devices
All these technologies can be integrated with ERP and other IT applications for 
managing their core operations.
11 Leveraging ITKey barriers to IT adoption
This sector is generally perceived to be reluctant in investing in IT. Several factors like the 
unorganised and fragmented nature of the sector, lack of regulatory compulsions and the 
view of the business leaders on IT as an expense rather than an investment are said to have 
contributed to the low penetration of IT in this sector. 
Some of the other factors that act as barriers to smooth IT adoption in transportation and 
logistics sector are as follows:
•	Unavailability	of	a	perfect	fit	system:	 The transportation and logistics operations are 
quite complex and needs specific functionalities in the IT systems. Fitment of an off 
the shelf product that satisfies the end-to-end needs of this sector is still questionable. 
Base ERP products, available in the market  require high levels of customisation and 
implementation time, thereby increasing costs. 
•	Technology	costs	and	affordability:  The transportation and logistics industry has 
perceived technology and solutions as expensive and at times unaffordable. Since 
the companies have evolved with their unique legacy processes, their IT system or 
applications need to be customised to the company’s requirements. This results in 
tremendous increase in end product cost. 
•	Low	allocation	to	IT	in	the	budget:	 Most warehousing firms do not have a formal 
IT budgeting process and hence don’t plan for their IT investments. Majority of the 
logistics market comprises small and medium-scale players who due to increased 
competition in the sector work on wafer thin margins. This results in little or no 
allocation to IT in their budgets. 
•	Limited	IT	benefits	perceived:	 Most logistics firms are managed by small 
entrepreneurs who do not have a good understanding of IT and its benefits. 
•	Restricted	support	from	end	customers:  Transportation and logistics companies 
have been wary of the fact though their customers desire real time information, online 
tracking of consignment and faster resolution of their grievances with IT intervention / 
e-ticketing systems, they are unwilling to pay for these investments in IT.  Players find it 
difficult to manage these expectations and maintain costs, resulting in their reluctance 
to spend in IT.
•	Skilled	resources:  This sector in India lacks skilled talent that has IT and logistics 
knowledge.These resources are required to run and maintain the application so that the 
intended benefits that the application provides can be realised. Very few logistics sector 
employees undergo IT training during the course of their employment. 
•	Standard	business	processes:	 Standardised business processes are not defined across 
all internal and external functions. This causes high levels of individual customisation 
in systems. Transformation of such business processes becomes difficult because the 
systems are not flexible enough to incorporate the changes within a reasonable time 
and cost.
•	Cultural	barriers:  Traditionally transportation and logistics businesses have been 
operated by unskilled or semi-skilled resources. This makes it difficult for the 
employees to accept change and transform their organisation through IT intrusion.
12
PwCThere are several transportation and logistics companies in India who have invested in 
excess of 0.8% (as an average percentage of the capex) into IT but even they are facing 
several challenges. Key among them is that they are unable to capitalise on their IT 
initiatives to maximise business opportunities. However, we believe that these challenges 
are different when the organisations moves up to the maturity curve. 
Some of the reasons for challenges are as follows: 
• The IT department is usually  headed by a non-IT resource and the IT manager is seen 
only as a procurer and supplier of IT goods/ services.
• There is rarely any long term IT vision and roadmap in transportation and logistics 
companies. Mostly the implementation of IT is sporadic and need based leading to 
stack of standalone applications/ systems creating silos.
• Inability to measure the success and utilisation of current or envisaged IT systems.
• Ever changing business processes and business requirements 
• Indecisiveness to invest further in major IT initiatives as it is not the priority of 
the management
• Business processes partially continue to be manual, while some are upgraded to the 
IT system
• Unwillingness to discard current systems and move to new ones. 
• Ongoing decisions required during implementation are not taken seriously
• Inadequate internal stakeholders expectations and change management 
PwC is of the view that for the transport and logistics industry to benefit from IT, 
this function needs to have a systematic organisational structure and the roles and 
accountabilities need to be redefined.  We believe organisations need to recognise the 
fact that the roles of  the chief information officer (CIO) and the  head of technology 
are fast evolving . If the CIO or the head of technology has to make IT relevant and a 
key prominent of business change,then he/she has to constantly innovate and drive the 
experiential delivery aspect. This must be done irrespective of  whether the customer is 
internal or external. 
CIOs and technology heads need to start focusing on benefit management more than 
programme management during and after the IT implementation. Adopting new age 
technology has to be a part of the daily routine. Given the margin pressures of this 
industry, every penny will be questioned. This makes it imperative for the CIOs and CTOs 
to have the list of non-negotiable and relevant technology interventions for stakeholder 
expectation management.
13
Leveraging ITKey initiatives undertaken by the government
People continuously expect the logistics service providers to provide world class delivery 
services.  This propels the companies to rely more on IT for efficient and smooth flow 
of their consignments. PwC believes that government policies and initiative could also 
prove to be a catalyst in the faster penetration of IT in transportation and logistics 
companies. The government is also sensitive of this fact and has been working directly 
and indirectly in this direction. Some of the interesting initiatives taken by government 
are as follows:
	Implementation	of	freight	operation	information	systems	(FOIS):  This is a 
computer network based information system that has been designed to give strategic 
advantages to both Indian railways and its customers. The network links various 
freight handling points, traffic control and rolling stock maintenance depots with 
the railways administration. FOIS will provide continuous cargo visibility and enable 
freight customers to have instant access to information regarding the current status of 
their consignments in transit and the expected time of arrival at its destination. This 
will help the industrial customers to achieve just-in-time inventory levels. Once it is 
fully implemented, FOIS will facilitate acceptance of customers’ orders for wagons and 
rakes (full length train formations), billing of freight charges by the railways and its 
payment by the customer electronically, and along with the introduction of e-commerce 
will make the entire business chain seamless. FOIS consists of two fully computerised 
modules, namely rake management system for handling the freight movement portion 
and terminal management system (TMS) for managing the commercial transactions 
with the customers.
Implementation	of	electronic	toll	collection	on	India’s	highway	network	to	ease	
delays	and	traffic	congestion	at	toll	collection	points:	 The ETC system would 
enable a smoother thoroughfare of traffic at toll plazas by facilitating automatic vehicle 
identification (AVI) and electronic collection of toll. As per CRISIL Research, currently, 
there are close to 525 toll plazas, operating on national and state highways in India. 
Over 20,000 vehicles cross these plazas daily, each queuing up for approximately 5-10 
minutes awaiting their turn to pay the toll fare. Each vehicle consumes almost 0.5-1.0 
litre of fuel in an hour. Collectively, these vehicles spend around 1,800-3,600 hours at 
toll plazas.
14
PwCLeveraging emerging technologies
Gains in operational efficiency can be credited to a more expansive use of IT that helps 
businesss run faster and more effectively. We believe that adapting emerging technologies 
to drive low cost and create scalable and flexible systems will be key to the overall success 
of the IT function. 
Few companies outside the pure web space have become truly digital in which information 
and the ability to act on it creates significant economic and competitive value. Leading 
companies are capitalising on digital ecosystems that are expanding due to the confluence 
of social networks, mobile computing, analytics, and cloud computing (SMAC). SMAC 
challenges enterprises to take advantage of the positive disruptions it portends, while they 
operate at the rapid pace of innovation and change that demands. 
SMAC and other emerging technologies create the possibility for new ways to develop 
products, interact with customers, partner with others, compete and succeed. 
More than strategy for any individual technology trend or for combining more than one 
of them, companies needs a systematic approach to engage with these technologies. 
Companies that have the most success engaging with SMAC are rethinking their business 
and enterprise architectures and emphasising three fundamental changes.
• They acknowledge that SMAC trends are the strongest signal yet that business 
ecosystems are becoming more digitised, where information content accounts for a 
rising proportion of the entire value of any product or service. 
• They understand that successfully tapping the new drivers of value requires a digital 
operating model, a model attuned to participating in or integrating with expanding 
digital ecosystems.
• Successful companies are adjusting their business and enterprise architectures to allow 
easy digital connections. 
The confluence of SMAC trends is driving this shift in business value. 
PwC anticipates that information associated logistics services will increasingly account for 
a rising share in the customer’s experience of value delivered, as illustrated below.
Customer’s experience of value delivered
15
Leveraging ITScaling integrations requires a digital operating model
While each SMAC technology has its own unique impact, the technologies are 
complementary in support of work getting done. 
The cloud increasingly contains more of the information and applications that people use. 
Mobile devices give people access to the cloud, to other data sources, and to each other. It 
empowers the authorized users to be more efficient with data on his finger tips
Analytics help them make actionable sense of all that data. 
Social media helps people find colleagues / service providers with whom to collaborate 
and co-create. 
The collective impact of SMAC on the enterprise operating model is so broad that it helps 
to think about the SMAC technologies as an integrated whole from a strategic viewpoint as 
illustrated below.
Strategic view point of SMAC
Trends Relationship with work 
Social Who we work with 
Mobile How we get to work 
Analytics What we work on, the meaning of work 
Cloud Where we do the work 
Emerging trends and business process improvementEmerging technology embarked on a journey to adopt high-quality 
innovative IT and business process improvement solutions
16
PwCWe recognize that SMAC is very relevant to the transport and logistics sector and many 
of the challenges pertaining to IT barriers could be addressed with the adaption of these 
technologies. Few of the transportation and logistics companies have effectively initiated 
hosting of sales and contract related workflow based application on cloud. This has helped 
them  reduce cost on application and infrastructure heads.
On similar lines, mobility solutions could be used for managing the delivery status 
through SMS and could add value if integrated with automated hand held devices for POD 
management. Invoice management, payment outstanding and collection reconciliation are 
general challenges which could be addressed with these mobility solutions if integrated 
with ERP or other related IT applications.
We also believe that social media could be  a game changer for the organisations providing 
complete supply chain solutions to their end customers. With e-commerce emerging as a 
strong marketplace, the supply chain solution providers would need to stay engaged with end 
users online through social media. This medium would be an effective mechanism to gather 
relevant feedback and also emerge as a strong branding agent. Though the direct clients of 
transportation and logistics companies have started building strategies around using social 
media technology, it is yet to take any concrete step towards an effective usage of this platform.

17
Leveraging ITNotes
18
PwCTo address the need of sharpening India Inc’s competitive edge through better Logistics 
and Supply Chain practices, CII Institute of Logistics (CIL) was established in 2004 by 
the Confederation of Indian Industry as a Center of Excellence in Logistics and Supply 
Chain. 
At CII Institute of Logistics we create a platform for the Industry to gain more insights 
into the emerging trends, industry specific problems of national importance and global 
best practices in logistics & supply chain management. We enable the industry to cut 
down the transaction cost, increase efficiency, and enhance profitability and enable to 
sensitize and bring solutions to macro level issues. 
The	Vision
CII Institute of Logistics to become an International Centre of Excellence in Logistics 
and SCM and to facilitate Indian industry to be referred in Global Business for its Best 
Practices in SCM and Logistics.
The	Mission
CII Institute of Logistics to be a platform to create and share intellectual capital for 
reducing transaction cost and improving competitiveness, in the process nurture the 
skills of Logisticians and ensure adoption of Best Practices in Logistics and SCM through 
online and offline activities.
For over four years now, CII Institute of Logistics, the country’s premier Centre of 
Excellence in logistics and SCM, has enabled a number of exemplary success stories 
in logistics.About CII
19
Leveraging ITPwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of 
firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in 
assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, 
Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC 
India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a 
separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_INAbout PwC
Rachna Nath
Executive Director
Direct: +91 (0) 22 6669 1539 
Mobile: +91 (0) 9820865684
Email: rachna.nath@in.pwc.com
Dilraj Singh Gandhi
Managing Consultant 
Direct: +91(124) 4620272
Mobile: +919818215814
Email: dilraj.singh.gandhi@in.pwc.com
Aditya Rath 
Managing Consultant 
Direct: +91 (22) 6669 1408
Mobile: +91 99203 41779 
Email:  aditya.rath@in.pwc.com Reach out to us
www.pwc.in
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers Inter national Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
MS 447 - February 2013 IT-T&l.indd 
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
