Title: pwc_handbook-on-corporate-social-responsibility-in-india
Date Published: 2013-12-16 11:50:17+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_handbook-on-corporate-social-responsibility-in-india.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Handbook on  
Corporate Social  
Responsibility in 
Indiawww.pwc.in
Message from  the Cha irman  
CII’s Development Initiative Council 
A robust and thriving development sector is central to India’s quest for equitable, inclusive 
and sustainable growth. India’s development sector has evolved substantially over the last few 
decades and is now witnessing unprecedented interest and investments across the value chain.
With the passage of the Companies Act, 2013 the mandate for corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) has been formally introduced to the dashboard of the Boards of Indian companies. The 
industry has responded positively to the reform measure undertaken by the government with a 
wide interest across the public and private sector, Indian and multinational companies. 
The practice of CSR is not new to companies in India. However, what this Act does is bring 
more companies into the fold. Also, it is likely that the total CSR spends will increase. What is 
clear to many companies is that if this increased spending is to achieve results on the ground 
– which is the intent of the Act – then it needs to be done strategically, systematically and 
thoughtfully.
It is in this context, that the ‘Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India’ developed 
by PwC India for CII can play an important role. The CII being the leading industry body, 
through this handbook, envisages equipping companies for this shift of structured engagement 
with communities. This handbook is aimed both at companies that are veteran CSR 
practitioners as well as those that are just entering the fray. It suggests steps to develop a CSR 
strategy and Policy and identifies the key building blocks for initiating and developing the CSR 
programs. It walks the CSR practitioner through some of the key choices that may be required 
to be made while pursuing CSR objectives and develop an organisation that is socially sensitive 
and responsible.
Building a society which provides equal access to opportunities negates disparities and, is a 
collective responsibility.  This Act presents a unique opportunity to stand up to the challenge. It 
is a call for action. And this handbook is a significant step in that direction.
Rakesh Bharti Mittal
Chairman, CII’s Development Initiative Council and
Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Bharti Enterprises

Message from  the Mentor and 
Chairman Emeritus   
Fortis Healthcare Limited 
The constitutional structure of the country was laid with an objective of one man equals one 
vote, equals one value. However the socio-economic realities of the country still have a long 
way to go to match this vision of independent India where today there are many first among 
equals. The country presently is under intense debate of developmental growth versus welfare 
based development. Our political realities and our economic senses are at cross-roads. How do 
we strike a balance between the two?  The choices we make today are going to influence our 
generations to come. 
Every single major policy initiative in this country has been driven with a perspective that an 
overwhelming concern for the disadvantaged and marginalised, a multidimensional view of 
poverty and human deprivation, the focus on our fundamental rights and the need to expand 
opportunities while ensuring its equal distribution are fundamental for achieving strong 
human development. But disparity, inequality and the growing divide in our societies define 
our existence today. The inclusion of the CSR mandate under the Companies Act, 2013 is an 
attempt to supplement the governments efforts of equitably delivering the benefits of growth 
and to engage the Corporate World with the country’s development agenda. 
Philanthropy and CSR is not a novel concept for Indian companies, however a few 
organisations are likely to struggle. The role of civil society in fuelling this change is bound to 
be extremely important. With the new corporate resources in their tool bag much will depend 
on their ability to innovate and adapt.  
The handbook is a guidance document which will facilitate development of CSR mandate 
within organisations and help streamline dialogue within the industry. An addendum will 
follow with details of the rules once the same have been notified by the Government.  The 
members of the industry are likely to find their output helpful, informative and enabling.
Confederation of Indian Industry has been in the forefront in sensitising industry on CSR 
and creating necessary enablers for promoting CSR for over a decade. I am confident that all 
companies will be immensely benefitted from this document too.   
I would like to extend my warm appreciation to the PwC team, including Sachin Shukla, 
Sharique Ahmad, Anjan Katna, Ankit Gupta and Shankar Venkateswaran who worked towards 
the development of this document.
Harpal Singh
Mentor and Chairman Emeritus,  
Fortis Healthcare Limited

BRR Business Responsibility Report
CSR Corporate social responsibility
DPE Department of Public Enterprises
EC European Commission
ESG Environmental, social and governance
ILO International Labour Organisation
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation
LBG London Benchmarking Group model
MCA Ministry of Corporate Affairs
NVG National Voluntary Guidelines
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India
SME Small and medium enterprises
SAAS Social accountability accreditation services
SGAAP Social generally accepted accounting principles
SROI Social return on investments
UN United Nations
UNGC United Nations Global Compact
UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organisation
WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable DevelopmentList of abbreviations
Contents
6       Wha t is CSR?  
11       The Companies Act, 2013  
14       CSR: Planning and strategising  
23       CSR and SMEs  
26       App endices
About the handbook  
India is a country of myriad contradictions. On the one hand, it has grown to 
be one of the largest economies in the world, and an increasingly important 
player in the emerging global order, on the other hand, it is still home to the 
largest number of people living in absolute poverty (even if the proportion 
of poor people has decreased) and the largest number of undernourished 
children. What emerges is a picture of uneven distribution of the benefits of 
growth which many believe, is the root cause of social unrest.
Companies too have been the target of those perturbed by this uneven 
development and as a result, their contributions to society are under 
severe scrutiny. With increasing awareness of this gap between the haves 
and the have-nots, this scrutiny will only increase over time and societal 
expectations will be on the rise. Many companies have been quick to sense 
this development, and have responded proactively while others have done so 
only when pushed. 
Governments as well as regulators have responded to this unrest and the 
National Voluntary Guidelines for Social, Environmental and Economic 
Responsibilities of Business or the NVGs (accompanied by the Business 
Responsibility Reports mandated by the SEBI for the top 100 companies) 
and the CSR clause within the Companies Act, 2013 are two such instances 
of the steps taken. 
According to Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, a minimum of 6,000 
Indian companies will be required to undertake CSR projects in order 
to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 with many 
companies undertaking these initiatives for the first time.  Further, some 
estimates indicate that CSR commitments from companies can amount to as 
much as 20,000 crore INR.
This combination of regulatory as well as societal pressure has meant 
that companies have to pursue their CSR activities more professionally. 
This handbook attempts to bring together good practices of companies 
and grant-making foundations so as to assist companies pursue their CSR 
activities effectively, while remaining aligned with the requirements of  the 
Companies Act, 2013.
This handbook begins by building a common understanding of the concept 
of CSR, based on global practices, Indian tradition, and the intent and 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. It then goes on to bring out the key 
aspects of clause 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the recently released 
draft rules, and highlights its implications to companies. 
A major part of the handbook focuses on the ‘what’ and ‘how’ of strategising, 
planning, executing and monitoring the CSR activities of companies. It 
provides a detailed guidance (rather than prescriptions) for each of these 
processes covering the following:
• Objective of the process
• Process owners
• Key inputs and outputs
• Activities  or tasks to be covered, including methodology and timelines
• Tools,  technical guidance or standards to be employed
It also has a section on what small and medium enterprises, some of whom 
will be required to comply with the Act, can do collectively. 
6 PwC
What is CSR?  
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      7What is CSR?
The global context
While there may be no single universally 
accepted definition of CSR, each definition 
that currently exists underpins the impact 
that businesses have on society at large and 
the societal expectations of them. Although 
the roots of CSR lie in philanthropic 
activities (such as donations, charity, 
relief work, etc.) of corporations, globally, 
the concept of CSR has evolved and now 
encompasses all related concepts such as  
triple bottom line, corporate citizenship, 
philanthropy, strategic philanthropy, shared 
value, corporate sustainability and business 
responsibility. This is evident in some of the 
definitions presented below:
The EC1 defines CSR as “ the responsibility of 
enterprises for their impacts on society”.  To 
completely meet their social responsibility, 
enterprises  “should have in place a process 
to integrate social, environmental, ethical 
human rights and consumer concerns into 
their business operations and core strategy in 
close collaboration with their stakeholders”
The WBCSD defines CSR as2 “the continuing 
commitment by business to contribute to 
economic development while improving the 
quality of life of the workforce and their 
families as well as of the community and 
society at large.”
According to the UNIDO3, “Corporate 
social responsibility is a management 
concept whereby companies integrate 
social and environmental concerns in 
their business operations and interactions 
with their stakeholders. CSR is generally 
understood as being the way through which 
a company achieves a balance of economic, 
environmental and social imperatives 
(Triple-Bottom-Line Approach), while at 
the same time addressing the expectations 
of shareholders and stakeholders. In this 
sense it is important to draw a distinction 
between CSR, which can be a strategic 
business management concept, and charity, 
sponsorships or philanthropy. Even
1 http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/sustainable-
business/corporate-social-responsibility/index_
en.htm
2 http://www.wbcsd.org/work-program/business-
role/previous-work/corporate-social-responsibility.
aspx
3 http://www.unido.org/what-we-do/trade/csr/what-
is-csr.html#pp1[g1]/0/ 
4 Brundtland Commission’s Report, 1987 though the latter can also make a valuable 
contribution to poverty reduction, will 
directly enhance the reputation of a company 
and strengthen its brand, the concept of CSR 
clearly goes beyond that.”
From the above definitions, it is clear that:
• The CSR approach is holistic and 
integrated with the core business strategy 
for addressing social and environmental 
impacts of businesses.
• CSR needs to address the well-being 
of all stakeholders and not just the 
company’s shareholders.
• Philanthropic activities are only a part of 
CSR, which otherwise constitutes a much 
larger set of activities entailing strategic 
business benefits. 
CSR in India
CSR in India has traditionally been 
seen as a philanthropic activity. And in 
keeping with the Indian tradition, it was 
an activity that was performed but not 
deliberated.  As a result, there is limited 
documentation on specific activities related 
to this concept. However, what was clearly 
evident that much of this had a national 
character encapsulated within it, whether 
it was endowing institutions to actively 
participating in India’s freedom movement, 
and embedded in the idea of trusteeship.
As some observers have pointed out, the 
practice of CSR in India still remains within 
the philanthropic space, but has moved from 
institutional building (educational, research 
and cultural) to community development 
through various projects. Also, with global 
influences and with communities becoming 
more active and demanding, there appears 
to be a discernible trend, that while CSR 
remains largely restricted to community 
development, it is getting more strategic in 
nature (that is, getting linked with business) 
than philanthropic, and a large number of 
companies are reporting the activities they 
are undertaking in this space in their official 
websites, annual reports, sustainability 
reports and even publishing CSR reports.
The Companies Act, 2013 has introduced 
the idea of CSR to the forefront and 
through its disclose-or-explain mandate, 
is promoting greater transparency and 
disclosure.  Schedule VII of the Act, which lists out the CSR activities, suggests 
communities to be the focal point. On the 
other hand, by discussing a company’s 
relationship to its stakeholders and 
integrating CSR into its core operations, 
the draft rules suggest that CSR needs 
to go beyond communities and beyond 
the concept of philanthropy. It will be 
interesting to observe the ways in which this 
will translate into action at the ground level, 
and how the understanding of CSR is set to 
undergo a change. 
CSR and sustainability
Sustainability (corporate sustainability) 
is derived from the concept of sustainable 
development which is defined by the 
Brundtland Commission as “ development 
that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations 
to meet their own needs” 4. Corporate 
sustainability essentially refers to the role 
that companies can play in meeting the 
agenda of sustainable development and 
entails a balanced approach to economic 
progress, social progress and environmental 
stewardship. 
CSR in India tends to focus on what  is 
done with profits after  they are made. On 
the other hand, sustainability is about 
factoring the social and environmental 
impacts of conducting business, that is,  
how  profits are made. Hence, much of the 
Indian practice of CSR is an important 
component of sustainability or responsible 
business, which is a larger idea, a fact 
that is evident from various sustainability 
frameworks. An interesting case in point 
is the NVGs for social, environmental 
and economic responsibilities of business 
issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
in June 2011. Principle eight relating to 
inclusive development encompasses most 
of the aspects   covered by the CSR clause 
of the Companies Act, 2013. However, the 
remaining eight principles relate to other 
aspects of the business. The UN Global 
Compact, a widely used sustainability 
framework has 10 principles covering 
social, environmental, human rights and 
governance issues, and what is described as 
CSR is implicit rather than explicit in these 
principles.
8 PwCGlobally, the notion of CSR and 
sustainability seems to be converging, as 
is evident from the various definitions of 
CSR put forth by global organisations. The 
genesis of this convergence can be observed 
from the preamble to the recently released 
draft rules relating to the CSR clause within 
the Companies Act, 2013 which talks 
about stakeholders and integrating it with 
the social, environmental and economic 
objectives,   all of which constitute the 
idea of a triple bottom line approach. It 
is also acknowledged in the Guidelines 
on Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability for Central Public Sector 
Enterprises issued by the DPE in April 20135. 
The new guidelines, which have replaced  
two existing separate guidelines on CSR 
and sustainable development, issued in 
2010 and 2011 respectively, mentions the 
following: 
“Since corporate social responsibility and 
sustainability are so closely entwined, it can 
be said that corporate social responsibility 
and sustainability is a company’s commitment 
to its stakeholders to conduct business in an 
economically, socially and environmentally 
sustainable manner that is transparent and 
ethical.”
5  Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability for Central Public Sector Enterprises 
-http://www.recindia.nic.in/download/DPE_Guide -
lines_CSR_Sust.pdf   Why is the CSR clause of the 
new Companies Act, 2013 so 
critical for SMEs?
By requiring companies, with a 
minimum net profit of 5 crore INR, 
to spend on CSR activities, the 
Companies Act, 2013 is likely to bring 
in many SMEs into the CSR fold. This 
will usher in  a fresh set of challenges 
to a sector that is increasingly 
being asked by its B2B customers 
to comply with environmental and 
social standards, while remaining 
competitive in terms of price and 
quality. Thus, SMEs will have to 
quickly learn to be compliant with 
these diverse set of requirements and 
it is hoped that this handbook will 
facilitate their ability to comply with 
the CSR clause of the Companies Act, 
2013.Benefits of a robust CSR 
programme
 As the business environment gets 
increasingly complex and stakeholders 
become vocal about their expectations, 
good CSR practices can only bring in greater 
benefits, some of which are as follows:
• Communities provide the licence to 
operate: Apart from internal drivers 
such as values and ethos, some of the key 
stakeholders that influence corporate 
behaviour include governments (through 
laws and regulations), investors and 
customers. In India, a fourth and 
increasingly important stakeholder is 
the community, and many companies 
have started realising that the ‘licence 
to operate’ is no longer given by 
governments alone, but communities 
that are impacted by a company’s 
business operations. Thus, a robust CSR 
programme that meets the aspirations 
of these communities not only provides 
them with the licence to operate, but 
also to maintain the licence, thereby 
precluding the ‘trust deficit’.
• Attracting and retaining employees: 
Several human resource studies have 
linked a company’s ability to attract, 
retain and motivate employees with 
their CSR commitments. Interventions 
that encourage and enable employees 
to participate are shown to increase 
employee morale and a sense of 
belonging to the company.
• Communities as suppliers: There 
are certain innovative CSR initiatives 
emerging, wherein companies have 
invested in enhancing community 
livelihood by incorporating them into 
their supply chain. This has benefitted 
communities and increased their income 
levels, while providing these companies 
with an additional and secure supply 
chain.
• Enhancing corporate reputation: 
The traditional benefit of generating 
goodwill, creating a positive image and 
branding benefits continue to exist for 
companies that operate effective CSR 
programmes. This allows companies 
to position themselves as responsible 
corporate citizens.

Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      9Global principles and guidelines
A comprehensive guidance for companies 
pertaining to CSR is available in the form 
of several globally recognised guidelines, 
frameworks, principles and tools, some of 
which are discussed below. It must be noted 
that most of these guidelines relate to the 
larger concept of sustainability or business 
responsibility, in keeping with the fact that 
these concepts are closely aligned globally 
with the notion of CSR.
UNGC
UNGC is world’s largest corporate citizenship 
initiative with the objective to mainstream the 
adoption of sustainable and socially responsible 
policies by businesses around the world. The 10 
principles of the UN Global Compact have been 
derived from various UN conventions such as 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on 
environment and development, and the UN 
Convention Against Corruption. These prin -
ciples cover four broad areas: 
•	 Human rights (support and respect the 
protection of international human rights 
and ensure that business is not complicit 
with human rights abuses)
•	 Labour rights (uphold the freedom of as -
sociation and effective recognition of the 
right to collective bargaining, elimination 
of all forms of forced and compulsory 
labour, effective abolition of child labour 
and elimination of description in respect 
of employment and occupation)
•	 Environment (support a precautionary 
approach to environmental challenges, 
undertake initiatives to promote greater 
environmental responsibility and encour -
age the development of environmental 
friendly technology)  
•	 Governance (work against corruption in 
all forms, including bribery and extor -
tion). 
For more details refer the website of UNGC 6The UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights
The UN guiding principles provide assistance 
to states and businesses to fulfil their existing 
obligations towards respecting and protecting 
human rights and fundamental freedoms and 
comply with the existing laws. These principles 
act as global standards for addressing the risk 
of human rights violation related to business 
activity. In circumstances when these laws 
are breached or the guidance is not adhered 
to, suitable remedies have also been recom -
mended. The primary focus is on the protec -
tion of human rights by both, the state and the 
business enterprises, and the principles broadly 
outline the manner in which the framework can 
be implemented.
For more details refer the website of Office of 
the High Commissioner for Human Rights7
ILO’s tripartite declaration of principles on 
multinational enterprises and social policy
This is another voluntary declaration whose 
adoption by governments, employers and mul -
tinational organisations is encouraged, with the 
intention of further ensuring labour and social 
standards. This is particularly for organisations 
that operate across multiple countries. Focus is 
on core labour standards such as  (i) freedom of 
association and the right to collective bargain -
ing (prohibition of discrimination, bonded and 
forced labour) (ii) industrial relations (no trade 
union restrictions, regular discussions between 
management and labour, and the provision of 
a forum to lodge complaints in case of labour 
standard violation)  (iii) employment opportu -
nities (creation of job security, improved living 
and working conditions and ensuring that 
wages are on par with those of other enter -
prises in the same country).
For more details refer the website of ILO8
OECD Guidelines: Multinational enterprises
OECD Guidelines for multinational enterprises 
elaborate on the principles and standards for 
responsible business conduct for multinational 
corporations. These guidelines were recently 
updated in 2011. They cover areas such as 
employment, human rights, environment, 
information disclosure, combating bribery, 
consumer interests, science and technology, 
competition and taxation. They contain defined 
standards for socially and environmentally 
responsible corporate behaviour, and also pro -
vide procedures for resolving disputes between 
corporations and communities or individuals 
adversely impacted by business activities.
For more details refer the website of OECD9Institute of Social and Ethical Account -
ability:  AccountAbility’s AA1000 series of 
standards 
This is a series of standards which enable or -
ganisations to become accountable, responsible 
and sustainable. It consists of the (i) AA1000 
accountability principles (AP) standard (ii) 
AA1000 assurance standard (AS) (iii) AA1000 
stakeholder engagement (SE) standard. Since 
these standards have been formulated through 
a multi-stakeholder consultation process, they 
ensure that those impacted (that is, enter -
prises, governments and civil societies) stand 
to gain. The Vodafone Group Plc has adopted 
the AA1000AP standard by focussing on three 
broad areas: (i) inclusivity (stakeholder en -
gagement to develop and implement a strategic 
approach to sustainability) (ii) materiality 
(assess the management effort required for 
each material issue and determine the content 
of sustainability reports) (iii) responsiveness 
(respond with solutions to material issues and 
challenges).
For more details refer the website of Account -
Ability10
Social Accountability International (SAI): SA 
8000 Standard 
This is one of the world’s first auditable social 
certification standard. It is based on ILO, UN 
and national law conventions, and adopts 
a management system approach in order to 
ensure that companies that adopt this approach 
also comply with it. This standard ensures the 
protection of basic human rights of workers. 
The nine basic elements of this standard in -
clude (i) child labour (ii) forced and compul -
sory labour (iii) health and safety (iv) freedom 
of association and the right to collective 
bargaining (v) discrimination (vi) disciplinary 
practices (vii) working hours (viii) remunera -
tion (ix) management systems. According to 
SAAS, there are 695 facilities in India that have 
been accredited with this standard. Out of  
these, Aditya Birla Chemicals (India) Limited, 
Bhilai Steel Plant Steel Authority of India 
Limited, Birla tyres, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories 
Limited and Reliance Infrastructure Limited 
figure prominently in the list of certified facili -
ties within  India.
For more details refer the website of SAI11 
6 www.unglobalcompact.org/
7 http://www.ohchr.org/Documents/Publications/GuidingPrinciplesBusinessHR_EN.pdf
8 http://www.ilo.org/empent/Publications/WCMS_094386/lang--en/index.htm
9 http://oecdwatch.org/about-oecd/guidelines
10 http://www.accountability.org/standards/
11 http://www.sa-intl.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&PageID=937
10 PwCISO 26000: Social responsibility
This is a guidance tool provided by the ISO 
which enables organisations to understand the 
meaning and significance of social responsi -
bility. It is important to note that this is not a 
certification but only a guiding tool. Hence, or -
ganisations which comply with these standards 
are self-certified. It covers six core areas of 
social responsibility, including (i) human rights 
(ii) labour practices (iii) environment (iv) fair 
operating practices (v) consumer issues (vi) 
community involvement and development. 
This ensures a holistic approach to the concept 
of social responsibility and sustainable develop -
ment.
For more details refer the website of ISO12  
OECD CSR policy tool
The OECD CSR policy tool aims to help 
companies gain insight into their current CSR 
activities, assess its value and determine other 
CSR activities that can be employed. This policy 
tool is based on the OECD Guidelines and the 
ISO26000 implementation guidelines. The re -
sult of the policy tool is a complete CSR policy, 
including an action plan with tasks, responsi -
bilities and a communication strategy plan. 
For more details refer the website of OECD13 
Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool
The Global Compact Self Assessment Tool is an 
easy-to-use guide designed for use by compa -
nies of all sizes and across sectors committed 
to upholding the social and environmental 
standards within their respective operations. 
The tool consists of 45 questions with a set of 
three to nine indicators for each question. It 
consists of a ‘management section’ and four 
other sections, including human rights, labour, 
environment and anti-corruption that relate to 
the principles of the UN Global Compact. The 
tool is in line with the UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights. For a small 
company, this tool acts as a measure of the 
company’s performance in all areas of the UN 
Global Compact and how well these issues are 
managed. For a large organisation, this tool 
helps to continuously improve existing policies 
and systems, engage subsidiaries, suppliers or 
other stakeholders, and improves internal and 
external reporting. 
For more details refer the website of Global 
Compact Self-Assessment Tool14The SROI Network  
The SROI Network is a framework based on 
social generally accepted accounting principles 
(SGAAP) that can be used to help manage and 
understand the social, economic and environ -
mental outcomes created by an organisation or 
a person.  In order to increase the social value or 
impact of a task, SROI helps in understanding, 
managing and communicating the social value 
that a particular task creates in a clear and 
consistent way with customers, beneficiaries 
and funders. It also helps in managing risks and 
identifying opportunities and raise finances. 
It flags potential improvements to services, 
information systems and the way to govern the 
businesses. By forecasting the value a company 
expects to create using SROI, one can identify 
the areas where changes are required and a 
comparison of performance against forecasts 
will help create additional value. 
For more details refer the website of SROI15 
The  LBG model 
Companies across the world adopt LBG’s 
measurement model in order to assess the real 
value and impact of their community invest -
ment to both, the business and society. This 
model helps companies to understand the total 
amount of cash, time and in-kind invested with -
in the community, and enables them to under -
stand the geographic spread of their commu -
nity support and the kind of themes supported 
such as education, health and arts and culture. 
Through this model, companies can track the 
manner in which their community programme 
supports wider business goals such as building 
employee morale or creating reputational 
advantages. Also, it helps to measure the differ -
ence their programmes make to the community 
at large.  Under this model, member companies 
share data and best practices which in turn help 
in the benchmarking process. 
For more details refer the website of LBG16 National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, 
Environmental and Economic Responsibili -
ties of Business
These guidelines rolled-out by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs in India, were developed 
through an extensive consultative process with 
the objective of providing a distinctive India-
centric approach for Indian businesses to un -
derstand the nuances of responsible business, 
applicable to large and small businesses alike. 
They are easy to comprehend and implement, 
and encourage businesses to adopt the triple 
bottom line approach. These guidelines consist 
of nine principles which relate to ethics and 
transparency, product life cycle sustainability, 
employee well-being, stakeholder engagement, 
human rights, environmental stewardship, 
responsible policy advocacy, inclusive develop -
ment and consumer well-being. Each principle 
consists of core elements that further articulate 
the purpose and sense of each principle. It 
also provides an approach for adopting these 
guidelines.
For more details refer the website of MCA17                                
12 http://www.iso.org/iso/home/standards/iso26000.htm
13 http://www.oecdguidelines.nl/get-started/creating-a-csr-policy/ 
14 http://www.globalcompactselfassessment.org/aboutthistool
15 http://www.thesroinetwork.org/117-home/all-regions/167-why-should-i-use-sroi10
16 http://www.lbg-online.net/about-lbg.aspx
17 http://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/latestnews/National_Voluntary_Guidelines_2011_12jul2011.pdf
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      11
Clause 135,  
Companies Act,  
2013
12 PwCThe Companies Act, 2013
In India, the concept of CSR is governed 
by clause 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
which was passed by both Houses of the 
Parliament, and had received the assent 
of the President of India on 29 August 
2013. The CSR provisions within the Act 
is applicable to companies with an annual 
turnover of 1,000 crore INR and more, or a 
net worth of 500 crore INR and more, or a 
net profit of five crore INR and more. The 
new rules, which will be applicable from the The Act lists out a set of activities eligible 
under CSR. Companies may implement 
these activities taking into account the local 
conditions after seeking board approval. 
The indicative activities which can be 
undertaken by a company under CSR have 
been specified under Schedule VII of the 
Act. 
The draft rules (as of September 2013) 
provide a number of clarifications and while 
these are awaiting public comment before 
notification, some the highlights are as 
follows:
• Surplus arising out of CSR activities will 
have to be reinvested into CSR initiatives, 
and this will be over and above the 2% 
figure
• The company can implement its CSR 
activities through the following methods: 
 -Directly on its own 
 -Through its own non-profit 
foundation set- up so as to facilitate 
this initiative 
 - Through independently registered 
non-profit organisations that have a 
record of at least three years in similar 
such related activities 
 -Collaborating or pooling their 
resources with other companies
• Only CSR activities undertaken in India 
will be taken into consideration
• Activities meant exclusively for 
employees and their families will not 
qualify
• A format for the board report on CSR 
has been provided which includes 
amongst others, activity-wise , reasons 
for spends under 2% of the average net 
profits of the previous three years and 
a responsibility statement that the CSR 
policy, implementation and monitoring 
process is in compliance with the CSR 
objectives, in letter and in spirit. This has 
to be signed by either the CEO, or the MD 
or a director of the company
Governance
Clause 135 of the Act lays down the fiscal year 2014-15 onwards, also require 
companies to set-up a CSR committee 
consisting of their board members, 
including at least one independent director.
The Act encourages companies to spend at 
least 2% of their average net profit in the 
previous three years on CSR activities. The 
ministry’s draft rules, that have been put 
up for public comment, define net profit 
as the profit before tax as per the books of 
accounts, excluding profits arising from 
branches outside India.
Promotion of 
education
Gender equity and  
women empowermentEradication of extreme  
hunger and poverty
Reducing child 
mortality and 
improving maternal 
healthCombating 
HIV-AIDS, 
malaria and other 
diseases
Environmental 
sustainability
Employment 
enhancing 
vocational 
skillsContribution to 
Prime Minister’s 
relief fund and other 
such state and 
central fundsSocial 
business 
projects
And such 
other matters 
as may be 
prescribedList of activities under Schedule VII
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      13guidelines to be followed by companies 
while developing their CSR programme.
The CSR committee will be responsible 
for preparing a detailed plan on CSR activities, including the expenditure, the 
type of activities, roles and responsibilities 
of various stakeholders and a monitoring 
mechanism for such activities. The CSR 
committee can also ensure that all the kinds 
of income accrued to the company by way of 
CSR activities should be credited back to the 
community or CSR corpus.Reporting
The new Act requires that the board of the 
company shall, after taking into account 
the recommendations made by the CSR 
committee, approve the CSR policy for 
the company and disclose its contents in 
their report and also publish the details 
on the company’s official website, if any, 
in such manner as may be prescribed. If 
the company fails to spend the prescribed 
amount, the board, in its report, shall 
specify the reasons.
Business responsibility 
reporting 
The other reporting requirement 
mandated by the government of 
India, including CSR is by the SEBI 
which issued a circular on 13 August 
2012 mandating the top 100 listed 
companies to report their ESG 
initiatives.  These are to be reported 
in the form of a BRR as a part of the 
annual report. SEBI has provided a 
template for filing the BRR.  Business 
responsibility reporting is in line with 
the NVG published by the Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs in July 2011. 
Provisions have also been made in 
the listing agreement to incorporate 
the submission of BRR by the relevant 
companies. The listing agreement 
also provides the format of the BRR. 
The BRR requires companies to report 
their performance on the nine NVG 
principles. Other listed companies 
have also been encouraged by SEBI 
to voluntarily disclose information 
on their ESG performance in the BRR 
format. Net worth > 500 Crore INR 
Turnover > 1000 Crore INR 
Net profit > 5 Crore INR 
Form a CSR commiittee
Approve the CSR policy
Ensure implementation of the activties 
under CSR
Ensure 2% spend
Disclose reasons for not spending the 
amount (if applicable)Role of the board CSR committee
Three or more directors with at least one 
independent director
Formulate and recommend a CSR 
policy to the board
Recommend activities and the amount 
of expenditure to be incurred
Monitor the CSR policy from time to 
timeRole of the board and the CSR committee
14 PwC
CSR: Planning  
and strategising
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      15CSR: Planning and 
strategising
The first step towards formalising CSR 
projects in a corporate structure is the 
constitution of a CSR committee as per the 
specifications in the Companies Act, 2013, 
clause 135.
Background
Clause 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 
requires a CSR committee to be constituted 
by the board of directors. They will be 
responsible for preparing a detailed plan 
of the CSR activities including, decisions 
regarding the expenditure, the type of 
activities to be undertaken, roles and 
responsibilities of the concerned individuals 
and a monitoring and reporting mechanism. 
The CSR committee will also be required to 
ensure that all the income accrued to the 
company by way of CSR activities is credited 
back to the CSR corpus. 
Companies Act, 2013, Clause 135: CSR 
committee requirements
•	 A CSR committee of the board should 
be constituted. It should consist of at 
least three directors out of whom at 
least one is an independent director. 
This composition will be disclosed in 
the board’s report as per sub-section 
(3) of section 134.
•	 The CSR committee shall:
 -formulate and recommend a CSR 
policy to the board, indicating the 
activities as specified in Schedule 
VII of the Act
 -recommend the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred on the 
activities indicated in the policy
 -monitor the CSR policy regularlyThis is an excellent starting point for any 
company new to CSR. In case a company 
already practices CSR, this committee 
should be set up at the earliest so that it 
can guide the alignment of the company’s 
activities with the requirements of the Act.
For effective implementation, the CSR 
committee must also oversee the systematic 
development of a set of processes and 
guidelines for CSR to deliver its proposed 
value to the company, including:
•	 one-time processes such as developing 
the CSR strategy and operationalising 
the institutional mechanism•	 repetitive processes such as the 
annual CSR policy, due diligence of 
the implementation partner, project 
development, project approval, 
contracting, budgeting and payments, 
monitoring, impact measurement and 
reporting and communication
A set of such enabling processes, their 
inter-relationships and the sequence in 
which they need to be developed have been 
identified below:
+
+
+
+Developing a CSR strategy 
and policy1
32
4
5Project approval
Impact measurementDue diligence of the 
implementation partner
Progress monitoring 
and reportingOperationalising the 
institutional mechanism
Finalising the 
arrangenment with the 
implementing agency
Report consolidation 
and communicationProject development
Project implementationCSR processes
16 PwCWhile developing these processes, no 
standard set of recommendations exist for 
all companies. However, an overview of the 
required details, the activities required to be 
completed for each of these processes along 
with some additional guidance on critical 
issues has been provided below:
Step one: Developing a CSR 
strategy and policy
Purpose
The Companies Act, 2013 requires every 
company to put out its CSR policy in the 
public domain. The guidance provided 
in the Act and the draft rules on what 
constitutes a CSR policy are that it should: 
•	 exclude normal business activities of 
the company 
•	 contain a list of the CSR projects or 
programmes which the company 
plans to undertake during the 
implementation year
While specifying the annual report 
requirements, the draft rules go on to say is 
that the company must provide:
•	 a brief outline of its CSR policy, 
including ‘the statement of intent 
reflecting the ethos of the company, 
broad areas of CSR interest and an 
overview of activities to be undertaken’
•	 a web  link to the CSR policy including 
‘the full list of projects, activities 
and programmes proposed to be 
undertaken by the company’ 
Since most of the development requires 
long-term commitments and their impact 
often takes a while to accrue, a good CSR 
practice requires that a company that is 
serious about its CSR should develop a 
long-term (three to five years) vision and 
strategy which is reviewed annually and the 
activities and budgets are planned on an 
annual basis. The latter will comply with the 
CSR policy requirements of the Companies 
Act, 2013. 
To avoid confusion regarding terms like 
policy, strategy, project and programme, a 
brief explanation has been provided here:
•	 CSR strategy refers to what the 
company expects to achieve in the next 
three to five years and incorporates the 
vision, mission and goals on a broader 
level. It also entails how it plans to 
achieve these in terms of organisation 
and approach.•	 CSR policy refers to what the company 
expects to achieve over the next year. 
This is aligned with the requirements of 
the Companies Act, 2013 .
•	 Programme refers to a sector or an 
issue that the company proposes to 
address through its CSR. This can, 
for instance, be ‘education of the girl 
child’ or ‘agriculture development’. 
Programmes will be clearly outlined in 
the company’s CSR strategy.
•	 Programme goals will be achieved 
through a series of individual projects 
and, a project refers to a set of 
interventions, typically in a specific 
geography and addressing a specific 
stakeholder group, with a definite set of 
goals, beginning and end and a budget 
attached to it.
•	 Each project in turn will consist of 
a number of activities. All of which 
contribute towards the project goals.
Frameworking CSR strategy
An effective CSR strategy should articulate:
•	 who it wishes to address i e the target 
group
•	  where it wishes to work i e the 
geography 
•	 what sectors or issues it wishes to 
address
A brief understanding of these terms is 
outlined below:
Target group:  While development and 
welfare programmes in India address all the 
citizens, the focus is on the disadvantaged, 
marginalised and excluded. Marginalisation 
in India is primarily on the basis of gender, 
disability, ethnicity and location. This leads 
to social and physical exclusion of such 
groups from all kinds of development. 
Engaging the marginalised in India is 
further complicated due to language and 
literacy variances, information asymmetry, 
infrastructure constraints, geographical 
challenges and cultural barriers to name 
a few. The CSR strategy should ideally 
indicate which of these marginalised groups 
it proposes to target.Geography:  The Companies Act, 2013 
encourages companies to target their CSR 
interventions in their local region. While 
this is an obvious choice for companies that 
are in manufacturing, those in the services 
sector (like banking and telecom) with a 
wider footprint have no concentrated local 
region. Companies must decide whether 
their CSR activities will be focused on a 
few geographies (this can be around their 
plants or in specific backward districts) or 
whether they will prefer to particularly work 
anywhere in India.
Sector and issue:  Sector refers to the 
development area that the company wishes 
to focus on; typically, health, education, 
livelihood, environment, and so on. 
Issue refers to a specific aspect of a sector 
for example, primary education in the 
education sector, skills development or 
social enterprise in the livelihoods sector. 
It is important for a company to determine 
which sector and issues it will focus on to 
ensure significant positive impact. Also, 
the reporting format in draft rules of the 
Companies Act, 2013 requires that the 
company report against the sector making it 
all the more important.
Process
Objective:  Developing the CSR strategy and 
policy.
Process owners:  The CSR committee
Inputs:
•	 Guidance from the board 
•	 Companies Act requirements 
•	 Corporate business strategy, plan and 
supply chain 
•	 Development priorities: both, national 
and wherever the company has 
business interests
Output(s): the CSR policy document and an 
indication of sectors and issues, geographies 
and a profile of the beneficiaries.
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      17Activities
•	 Reviewing the past as well as the 
current CSR activities and examining 
their alignment with Schedule VII of 
the Companies Act, 2013. 
•	 Studying the publicly available 
information on national and local 
development priorities.
•	 Meeting development experts in the 
government as well as the NGOs to 
understand priorities and identifying 
potential areas of intervention.
•	 Conducting internal meetings with 
business leaders to establish the 
relevance of potential CSR activities to 
the company’s core business.
•	 Studying the good CSR practices 
of other companies and their 
achievements.
•	 Developing a CSR strategy that defines 
for the next three to five years, what 
the company’s CSR activities will cover 
in terms of:
 -vision and mission
 -sectors and issues
 -geographies: states and districts
 -beneficiaries
 -KPIs Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 The 10 principles of the UN global 
compact
•	 UN guiding principles on business 
and human rights
•	 ILO tri-partite declaration of 
principles on multinational 
enterprises and social policy
•	 OECD CSR policy tool
•	 Global compact self assessment
•	 Clause 135, Companies Act, 2013
Decision criteria Grant making Self execution
Availability and access to 
implementation partnerPreferred when there is an easy availability and 
access to the implementation partners (in the target 
geography working on identified sector and issue) who 
can work towards the objective that the company wants 
them to pursue. Preferred when there is a lack of availability and 
access to the implementation partners (in the 
target geography working on identified sector and 
issue) who can work towards the objective that the 
company wants them to pursue. 
 Customisation The flexibility of customising a CSR project to suit the 
company needs is low to medium.The flexibility of customising a CSR project to suit 
the company needs is high.
Cost of implementation Implementation partners are more likely to have lower 
costs due to their concentrated focus in pursuing 
development activities, cumulative time spent on 
the field, cost of human resources deployed and 
in general operational efficiencies. Fixed costs are 
usually averaged down as the implementation partners 
usually try to tap multiple sources of funding including 
government assistance.Overheads are usually higher and economic 
efficiencies lower (at least during inception and 
growth phases). Higher fixed costs are involved.
Control Low to medium levels of control over day to day 
activities, efficiencies and outputs.High levels of control over day to day activities, 
efficiencies and outputs.
Building expertise Project management know-how is sufficient and in-
depth domain knowledge of development issues is not 
expected.Project management know-how is required along 
with in-depth domain knowledge of development 
issues.Step two: Operationalising the 
institutional mechanism
Purpose
In order for a corporate to gain the greatest 
leverage and a strategic advantage through 
the investment of intellectual and financial 
resources, they are required to select their 
implementation mechanism. In terms of 
implementation mechanism, a company has 
several options, which are permitted under 
the CSR draft rules:
•	 Self-execution through:
 -an in-house CSR department
 -a company foundation with execution 
capabilities
•	 Making grants to an independent 
implementation partner (which has a 
track record of at least three years).
•	 The grants can be made:
 -direc tly by an in-house CSR 
department
 -through the company’s grant-making 
foundation
The factors that a company needs to 
consider while deciding between in-house 
execution and grant-making (whether 
by the department or the company  
foundation) are as follows:•	 Determining the implementation 
mechanism:
 -grant-making or direct 
implementation
 -institutional mechanism: in-house 
department, corporate foundation, 
partnerships with other NGOs
•	 Annually developing a CSR policy in 
line with the Companies Act, 2013 rules 
that defines programmes, geographies 
and budgets for the following financial 
year, aligned with the strategy and 
ensuring that the 2% requirement of 
funds allocation is met
•	 Establish methods for monitoring and 
reporting
18 PwCIt must be noted that whatever 
implementation mechanism the company 
chooses, it must have a basic CSR 
department in place to support the CSR 
committee. The role and structure of the 
department will be determined by the CSR 
committee.
Selecting legal structure of the 
company foundation
Many companies have set up their own 
foundations (a term used loosely to describe 
a non-profit entity promoted by a company) 
to implement their CSR activities. The 
advantages that they see in this are:
•	 It enables leveraging of funds from 
other sources i e the government 
schemes and other foundations. 
Typically, profit organisations are not 
eligible for such funds.
•	 Since the skills, job titles, career paths 
and cost structures required for the 
execution of CSR projects are quite 
different from a company’s operations, 
a separate foundation enables the 
company to keep these distinct.
Under the draft CSR rules, an entity 
that a company sets up to facilitate the 
implementation of its CSR activities is to 
be registered in India as a trust, society, 
or a non-profit company under section 818 
of the Companies Act, 2013. Non-profit 
organisations in India are:
•	 self-governed by a board of trustees or 
a managing committee or a governing 
council, comprising individuals who 
generally serve in a fiduciary capacity
•	 intended to benefit others outside the 
membership of the organisation
•	 prohibited from distributing a 
monetary residual to its members
A detailed comparative analysis of the 
three choices of non-profit legal structures 
is attached in Appendix 1: Comparative 
analysis of the three choices for legal 
entity. Process
Objective:   Establishing a legal entity and 
aligning the accounting, tax, finance, 
administration, HR and IT systems to deliver 
the commitments made in the CSR policy.
Process owners:  The CSR committee
Inputs: The CSR strategy
Output(s): 
•	 creation of a separate legal entity or a 
CSR department for CSR activities 
•	 other institutional mechanisms 
to align the accounting, finance, 
administration, HR and IT systems with 
CSR activities
Activities:
•	 Selecting the organisation model for 
the CSR implementation: in-house 
versus outsourced and its legal entity 
(trust, society, Section 819 company , 
in-house department, etc)
•	 Identifying the implementation model 
(grant making, direct project execution, 
etc)
•	 Formalising the job description, 
the roles and responsibilities and 
the reporting relationships for the 
CSR team (whether in-house or in a 
foundation)
•	 Integrating budgeting, procurement, 
payments and reporting for CSR with 
the existing finance, administration 
and IT systems
•	 Analysing accounting systems and 
chart of accounts and make required 
changes to record all expenses 
appropriately. Establish a method of 
allocation for the expenses (or assets 
created) that are partly for the CSR 
and partly for business or employee 
use. 
18,19 The non-profit organization formerly known as Section 25 companies are now called Section 8 companies after the introduction of Companies Act, 2013.Step three: Due diligence of the 
implementation partner
Purpose
Due diligence refers to the process a 
company undertakes to determine the 
risks as well as the benefits of working 
with a potential implementation partner. 
This process has to be sufficiently robust to 
ensure that a company’s implementation 
partners have the reputation, competence 
and integrity to deliver effective 
programmes on the ground.
It begins as soon as the discussions with 
the implementation partner suggest that 
there is prima facie interest of both parties 
to enter into a partnership. A detailed 
due-diligence is essential for large and 
long partnerships but may be brief for a 
relatively small or opportunistic partnership 
opportunity.
The due diligence process consists of five 
primary areas for investigation:
•	 competence of the implementation 
partner
•	 identity
•	 management 
•	 accountability 
•	 transparency and financial capability
These have been outlined below:
Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 To be tailored as per corporate 
requirements
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      19Issue Sub-issue Description
Competence of the 
implementation 
partnerGeography Capacity, expertise and the number of years of experience with the geography under consideration
Sector Capacity, expertise and the number of years of experience with the sector under consideration
Issue Capacity, expertise and the number of years of experience with the issue under consideration
IdentityHistory of existence The number of years the implementation partner has been in existence
Legal identity The organisation is registered either as a trust, a society or Section 8  company, a charitable company, 
a co-operative society or is unregistered
Affiliations The desired level of affiliation with governments, local administration and international bodies
Litigations Any ongoing litigation
ManagementComposition of the board Number of members, advisors, term of members and advisors and board renewal procedures
Profile of the board 
members and advisorsBios of the members on the board, their number of years and depth of experience and relevant 
achievements
Diversity in expertise The expertise available at the disposal of the board for development activities
Board meetings Regularity of meetings, attendance records and recent topics of discussion
Vision, mission and 
strategyThe management outlines its vision, mission and strategy in its operational plans or other documents. 
These plans are communicated to all relevant employees
Experience of the 
management The management personnel responsible for the day-to-day activities have the necessary depth of 
experience and skill set to manage the current and the future growth plans.
Conflict of interest Any conflict of interest between the board members, the advisors or the management personnel with 
the company. There is no conflict of interest with the local governments.
Transparency Transparency Awareness of the disclosure and the transparency requirements for all stakeholders (including 
regulators and funders) like periodic reporting, external audits and ratings
Financial capabilityFinancial statements Availability of audited financial statements 
Adequacy of reserves A formalised and institutionalised system for keeping reserves for times of financial need
Section 12A registration Status of Section 12A registration
80G registration Status of 80G registration.
FC(R)A registration Status of the registration with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010.
A more detailed due-diligence can also 
undertake the evaluation of the following 
five issues:
•	 organisation structure 
•	 operations, systems and processes 
•	 human resource 
•	 financial capability
•	 risk management
CII and Credibility Alliance’s guidelines for 
identifying NGO partners are mentioned in 
Appendix 4.
Process
Objective:   Selecting the implementation 
partner.
Process owners:  The CSR department or 
Company Foundation
Inputs:  
•	 the CSR strategy and policy  
•	 discussions with communities, board, 
staff, other funders, local government 
officials, local leaders or influencers, 
auditors •	 studying the books of accounts and the 
auditor’s report
Output(s):
•	 a due diligence report
Activities:
•	 Establishing a due diligence criteria 
to evaluate the implementation or 
concept development agency including 
its incorporation, permits and licenses, 
systems, processes, public image, 
management, team deployment, 
track record, financial soundness, 
competence level, presence in desired 
geography, compatibility with company 
CSR policy and any conflicts of interest.
•	 Establishing a due diligence criteria 
for evaluation and empanelment of 
private funders for partnership and 
joint projects.
•	 Evaluating the partnership 
opportunities for its risks and benefits.Step four: Project development
Purpose
The CSR strategy of a company will be 
implemented through a series of projects 
which will have definite beginnings, ends, 
expected outputs and outcomes as well as 
budgets associated with it. These projects 
may be of a short duration (a few months) 
or multi-year. 
A company may choose to implement 
projects through its in-house teams or 
in partnership with other agencies or a 
combination of both. Whatever path it 
takes, it is important for the project to be 
developed clearly with distinct baselines, 
defined activities, ‘monitorable’ targets and 
budgets. In the case of multi-year projects, 
it is important to include a provision to 
undertake annual reviews which can form 
the basis to revise the project.
Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 To be tailored as per corporate 
requirements.
20 PwCProcess
Objective:  Developing a feasible project 
proposal.
Process owners:  The implementation 
agency (the CSR department, company 
foundation or the NGO partner)
Inputs: 
•	 the CSR policy  
•	 institutional mechanisms 
•	 information from the government 
sources, previous studies done in the 
area, etc  
•	 information on programs targeting 
similar geographies and beneficiary 
groups or strategies
•	 monitoring impact measurement 
reports from any earlier projects
Output(s): 
A project proposal that details:
•	 a project context including the roles of 
other development actors 
•	 key needs of the target beneficiaries 
•	 project goals, KPIs, baselines and 
expected end lines 
•	 project milestones for progress 
monitoring purposes 
•	 activities and timelines to achieve the 
stated project goals 
•	 budgets along with the basis for 
estimation 
•	 risks and mitigation strategies 
•	 progress reporting: content, frequency 
Activities:
•	 Developing a framework to identify 
key stakeholder groups including the 
local community, the local government 
or bodies, academia and research 
institutions, investors, etc.
•	 Conducting a needs assessment (if 
required) to assess development 
priorities. The methodology for this can 
be participatory processes, surveys or a 
combination of the two.
•	 Studying and adopting good practices 
to address similar challenges based on 
prior experiences or lessons available 
from other practitioners and develop 
the approach.•	 Detailing the project: the objectives, 
the beneficiaries and the impact on 
the beneficiaries, the assumptions, 
the expected outputs and outcomes, 
detailed activities, potential to 
influence public policy and practice. 
•	 Identifying the indicators of success 
with the means of verification and 
establish the baseline for each. This can 
be commissioned as a separate study 
or can even be included in the needs 
assessment stage.
•	 Estimating the budget and how it will 
be funded specifying the community 
contributions, leveraging of the 
government schemes and contributions 
from the other donors.
•	 Indicating the monitoring and 
evaluation methodologies for impact 
measurement.
Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 Social return on investments (SROI), 
the SROI network 
•	 Global impact investing network (GIIN)
•	 ISO 26000: social responsibility
Step five: Project approval
Purpose
Every project, whether developed by the 
in-house team or an external agency, must 
be formally examined and approved. This 
is to ensure that each project is in line with 
the CSR strategy and policy, the monitoring 
indicators are clearly defined and relevant 
and there is an adequate budget available. 
Projects that go on for longer durations 
or demand a larger amount of resources 
must be scrutinised more carefully than the 
others.
The CSR committee is ultimately the 
one responsible for every project. It can, 
however, choose to delegate authority to 
a project approval committee consisting 
of company staff and outside experts with 
clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
Process
Objective:   Approve the project based on 
the CSR policy objectives, principles and 
guidelines.
Process owners: The CSR committee or the 
delegated project approval committee.Inputs:
•	 a project proposal
•	 a due diligence report
Output(s):  An approved project proposal 
including a monitoring process and 
reporting and responsibility for this.
Activities:
•	 Determining the delegation of power 
for the project approval.
•	 Establishing an evaluation framework 
for the appraisal of the project concepts 
and implementing agencies that ensure 
complete alignment with the CSR 
policy.
•	 Establishing tests for the theory of 
change; whether the concept will be 
able to deliver the intended results. 
Establishing tests for the value for 
money, economy, effectiveness and 
efficiency.
•	 Reviewing risks and mitigation 
measures.
•	 Identifying resource availability 
and any specific organisational 
requirements and constraints.
•	 Laying down organisational supervision 
and oversight requirements.
Tools, technical guidance  and standards to be used:
•	 To be tailored as per corporate 
requirements.
Step six: Finalising the 
arrangement with the 
implementing agency
Purpose
While working with an external agency, 
it is very important to enter into a formal 
arrangement which is referred to here 
as a Memorandum of Understanding or 
MoU. It defines the roles, responsibilities, 
deliverables, commitments and 
consequences in case of any breach. This is 
essentially a formal acknowledgement that 
all the partners have voluntarily consented 
to work together to achieve an agreed 
outcome that requires each one to play their 
respective roles.
The term MoU is used more generically 
here to refer to the arrangements between 
partners which can range from a formal, 
legally enforceable contract on the one hand 
to a simple exchange of written documents 
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      21on the other. However, what is important 
for the company to keep in mind is that 
it is entering into an arrangement with a 
partner, not a supplier and there is a greater 
sense of mutuality in this relationship.
It may also be noted that the MoU is 
relevant only if the project is being 
implemented by a legal entity other than 
the company’s own CSR department. It 
must also be executed if the project is being 
implemented by the company foundation if 
it is a separate legal entity.
Disbursement scheduling
For a project to deliver the desired results, 
it should have sufficient funds to carry out 
the planned activities. At the same time, 
having excess funds in the bank account 
is not prudent financial management. 
Thus, the scheduling of disbursements is 
important both for the company (to plan its 
cash flows from the CSR budget) and the 
implementing agency and hence needs to be 
detailed in the MOU.
A good practice suggests that the scheduling 
of disbursements should be linked with 
the activities planned for the each period; 
this can be a quarter, six months or a 
year depending upon the administrative 
convenience and budget sizes. Thus, the 
project budget needs to be broken up 
accordingly and the funds required for the 
subsequent period should be made available 
in advance.  
Actual disbursements have to then be linked 
to the progress on the ground. The MoU 
should also specify the conditions that the 
implementing agency should fulfil and the 
documentation it should provide in support 
of a disbursement request. Typically, these 
include the status of:
•	 activities originally planned in the 
period
•	 changes and the reasons thereof
•	 planned and required funds for the 
period
•	 utilised funds and bank balances
•	 net funds required  Process
Objective:  Agree upon and sign the MoU 
with the partner.
Process owners:  The CSR department or 
company foundation
Inputs: 
•	 an approved project proposal
•	 a due diligence report
Output(s):  MoU with the implementing 
agency including the disbursement 
schedule.
Activities:
•	 Developing template MoUs based 
on the context. Specify the outputs 
and outcomes, the approach and 
methodology, the KPIs,  key parameters 
to be monitored and reported, the 
mode of communication, contract 
management team, scope of change 
in management procedures, dispute 
or conflict resolution mechanisms, 
inspection and audit requirements, 
contract closeout requirements, time-
lines, milestones and deliverables, 
budgets, process of invoicing and 
release of payments, etc
•	 Establishing a process for negotiation 
of the MoU with the implementing 
agency. 
•	 Negotiating, agreeing upon and signing 
the MoUTo ensure objectivity, it is critical that the 
monitoring is done by someone other 
than the people directly engaged in the 
project implementation. In cases where 
the implementation is done by a partner or 
corporate foundation, this role can either be 
outsourced or played by the company’s CSR 
department. In case the CSR department 
itself is implementing a project, then 
monitoring should either be outsourced to 
a third party or the department structure 
should include an independent monitoring 
cell. This decision should be taken by the 
CSR committee.
Process
Objective:  Monitoring progress, distilling 
lessons and forming the basis for reporting.
Process owners:  The CSR committee
Inputs:
•	 The approved project proposal 
•	 Previous monitoring reports
Output(s): 
•	 Determining mid-course corrections 
•	 Recommendations for future project 
designs 
•	 Project monitoring reports to the CSR 
committee
Activities:
•	 Determining the monitoring schedule 
for each project based on the approved 
project proposal.
•	 Obtaining all relevant progress reports 
from the project, studying them and 
making a note of the gaps.
•	 Holding discussions with the 
implementation team on reasons for 
slippages (if any) and agreeing on a 
corrective action. This may be done 
through a field visit or remotely, based 
on what has been agreed in the MoU.
•	 Holding discussions with the 
implementation team regarding what 
lessons are emerging and how they can 
be applied within the project as well as 
outsi de. 
Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 To be tailored as per corporate 
requirements.Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 To be tailored as per corporate 
requirements.
Step seven: Progress monitoring 
and reporting
Purpose
Routine progress monitoring serves the 
following three important purposes:
•	 It highlights any slippages and helps to 
determine a corrective action that must 
be taken if need be. 
•	 It provides an excellent opportunity 
for learning: what worked and what 
did not. This can then be immediately 
applied to other projects. 
•	 This is an essential part of the directors’ 
report as per the CSR clause of the 
Companies Act, 2013
22 PwCStep eight: Impact measurement
Purpose
Impacts of the development projects 
typically take a while to manifest. For 
instance, a girl child education programme 
can show an increased enrolment and 
retention of girls and on a monthly basis, 
but further impacts such as improved 
learning levels will take at least a year. 
So, impact measurement studies have 
different objectives from project monitoring 
and typically have to be undertaken after 
providing sufficient time for them to 
manifest.
Impact measurement is often quite 
specialised and needs to be undertaken 
by an independent team with specific 
skills depending upon project design. 
For instance, if a girl child education 
programme has a strong component 
for mobilising communities, then the 
members of the evaluation team must not 
only understand education but also have 
knowledge of gender and the community in 
order to assess the impact.  
There are several tools and frameworks 
for measuring impact. Each has its pros 
and cons depending upon the nature of 
interventions, time and budgets available 
for the study and the availability of people. 
Thus, selecting the impact measurement 
methodology is important.
Thus, impact studies have to be carefully 
planned in terms of team composition, 
timing and methodology. The process must 
be driven by the CSR committee which can 
delegate the day-to-day management of the 
process to an appropriate structure within 
the company.
Process
Objective:  Measuring the outcome and 
impact of the projects. 
Process owners: The CSR committee
Inputs: 
•	 resource planning
•	 the project MoU
Output(s):
•	 impact measurement report
•	 recommendations for the future project 
designsActivities:
•	 Identifying methods for conducting 
the impact assessment and outcome 
measurement suited to the context 
and the size of the project and budgets 
available.
•	 Identifying the skills set required for 
the impact measurement team and 
accordingly identifying, selecting and 
appointing the team.
•	 Assisting the team to prepare the 
methodology for selecting a sample, 
conducting surveys, focus group 
discussions collecting information on 
the identified indicators.
•	 Making the provisions for the site visits 
by the team, involvement of the agency 
involved during the baseline and needs 
assessment.
•	 Undertaking the impact measurement 
exercise and preparing the report.
•	 Identifying the lessons for future 
interventions.Act, 2013. The report has to conform to 
the requirements of CSR rules under the 
Companies Act, 2013 in terms of form 
and content as non-compliance attracts 
penalties. This report will also form a key 
input into the company’s SEBI Business 
Responsibility Report and sustainability 
report. The CSR committee may choose 
to go beyond the requirements of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and issue a stand-
alone CSR report.
Process
Objective: Reporting the CSR at an 
individual project level, consolidated at 
a programme level and aligned with the 
requirements under the Companies Act, 
2013 and the CSR committee.
Process owners:  The CSR department
Inputs: 
•	 CSR strategy and policy
•	 the project MoU
•	 monitoring reports from individual 
projects 
Output(s):  
•	 consolidated CSR reports 
•	 external stakeholder communication
Activities:
•	 Identifying the recipient of the report: 
the board of directors, investors, 
government agencies, beneficiaries, etc.
•	 Selecting the appropriate reporting 
framework that is aligned with the 
requirements of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the global best practices.
•	 Consolidating project reports into 
programme reports and an overall CSR 
report.
The reporting format will form a part of the 
CSR rules being drafted by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs. Step nine: Report consolidation 
and communication
Purpose
Reporting and communication closes the 
loop between intent and achievement and is 
hence a crucial element of the CSR process. 
In the context of the Companies Act, 2013 
this is also a mandatory requirement as it 
provides crucial inputs to preparing the 
directors’ report.
Project-level reporting forms the base 
and hence getting it right is critical. 
Project reports have to be consolidated in 
programme related reports, aligned with 
the CSR policy stated by the company 
as a requirement under the Companies Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 London Benchmarking Group(LBG)  
model 
•	 Social return on investments (SROI), 
The SROI network 
•	 Global impact investing network 
(GIIN)
•	 Accountability -: AA 1000, Institute 
of Social and  Ethical Accountability 
•	 ISO 26000: social responsibility
•	 Public consultation guidelines of 
Government of India, etc
Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 SEBI directive on ESG disclosure (if 
applicable) , RBI guidelines on CSR, 
sustainable development and  non-
financial reporting (if applicable)
•	 Clause 135, Companies Act, 2013 (if 
applicable)
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      23
CSR and SMEs
24 PwCCSR and SMEs 
What are SMEs?
Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) 
significantly contribute towards 
India’s economic growth. These serve 
independently and also as ancillary to larger 
units and help generate employment and 
industrialise the rural and backward regions 
of India. They employ nearly 40% of India’s 
workforce and contribute around 45% to 
India’s manufacturing output20. 
What do they do?
The business activities of SMEs are 
performed in proximity to the locals.   This 
enables them to be aware of community 
needs, manage expectations and develop 
CSR programmes appropriately. 
Now that the CSR clause in the Companies 
Act, 2013 covers companies that have a 
net profit of five crore INR and above, it 
is expected that while micro-enterprises 
will not qualify, many small and medium 
enterprises (SMEs) will. 
SMEs are being treated separately in this 
handbook because of their distinct features. 
The CSR activities of these enterprises 
are driven by the personal interests of 
promoters who hold a significant financial 
stake in the business. They tend to be in 
clusters and engaged in similar business 
activities. While the quantum of revenue 
available for CSR with individual SMEs is 
expected to be small, all eligible companies 
in a specific geographical cluster, who single 
handed as well as collectively impact the 
same community, can pool their resources 
to create a sizeable CSR fund. 
How can SMEs contribute to CSR 
initiatives?  
This section analyses the option of 
undertaking collaborative CSR activities 
by SMEs. This collaboration can also be 
used by other companies to maximise 
the impact of their CSR initiatives while 
reducing the operational costs for fund 
management. Why collaborate for CSR 
initiatives?   
CSR is for all companies. SMEs in India 
have participated in CSR activities but these 
efforts have not been optimally delivered.21 
One possible reason can be the fact that CSR 
activities depend on the profits of an SME 
and any fluctuations in profits can adversely 
affect their capability to continue their 
contribution for CSR.  Another reason can 
be the limited human resources available to 
SMEs which may also result in the lack of a 
professional approach. 
SMEs tend to focus on short-term activities 
that involve lesser operational costs. A 
survey conducted by UNIDO in 2008 on five 
SME clusters in India, found that 31% to 
79% of the SMEs in these clusters, preferred 
charity donations rather than long-term 
programmes for local communities. 
With the introduction of the new Companies 
Act, 2013, the SME’s approach to CSR has 
to be modified while keeping operational 
costs low. One viable alternative is to pool 
resources with other SMEs in the cluster 
and create joint CSR programmes managed 
by a single entity. This collaboration can be 
formed within the units in a cluster as they 
interact with the same communities and 
have already established associations that 
cater to the business needs of the units. 
Collaboration has the following 
advantages:
•	 Reduces operational cost: Individual 
CSR efforts by a company consist 
of establishing a CSR department, 
assessing the needs of local 
communities, undertaking programmes 
directly or through an NGO and 
conducting regular impact assessment 
studies. A common organisation 
catering to a number of companies will 
carry out these activities collectively 
and thus reduce the operational cost of 
management.
•	 Undertake long-term projects:  A 
major hindrance in developing long-
term projects is the uncertainty in the 
CSR budget. This is dependent on the 
financial performance of the company. 
A fluctuating performance implies 
that the CSR budget allocations can 
be unreliable and can jeopardise a 
programme initiated earlier. Pooling 
resources addresses this issue to a 
20. http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2013-06-09/news/39834857_1_smes-workforce-small-and-medium-enterprises
21. http://www.business-standard.com/article/sme/smes-to-get-professional-help-on-corporate-social-responsibility-108060501090_1.html
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      25certain extent as the other partners 
can increase their share in case there 
is variance in allocation from a certain 
segment of the cluster. The long-
term programmes also have greater 
impact than the short-term projects. 
Communities are increasingly realising 
the importance of the support offered 
by these programmes in making their 
lives better. Long-term programmes 
also lead to better community relations 
and this ensures avoiding situations 
of community unrest that hamper 
business activities. 
•	 Learning from experiences: A common 
entity with multiple participants from 
the cluster will help assess community 
needs, undertake relevant programmes 
based on past experiences and address 
a greater number of community issues. 
Collaboration among the SMEs in a cluster 
also provides an opportunity to manage 
social and environmental issues and 
respond better to the pressure from buyers, 
who are trying to establish ethical supply 
chains and gain appreciation from the 
international community. Collaborations 
can also be forged amongst larger 
companies, possibly through industry 
associations, to enable them to address 
common issues plaguing a geographical 
region or an industry. 
The process for an SME
The first step involved in collaborating is to 
create an alliance of interested SMEs. This 
may be initiated by the cluster association 
in case of large-scale participation from the 
cluster. Alternatively, it can be initiated by 
an individual SME in case there are only 
a few units interested in undertaking CSR 
activities in collaboration. Involvement of 
the cluster association will ensure that the 
local priorities are given due consideration 
while developing CSR programmes. In case 
a sufficient number of SMEs in a cluster do 
not wish to participate or are not required 
under the Companies Act, 2013 to spend 
on CSR activities, the boundary may be 
extended to other clusters, though this 
increases complexity. 
The alliance should then form a steering 
committee with the representatives from 
each SME so as to democratically decide on 
issues. The steering committee should study 
the institutional method of implementation, 
i.e. undertaking activities through an 
established trust, society, a Section 8 
company or forming a new entity or directly 
managing the funds. The steps other than the guidelines 
mentioned by the steering committee in the 
section “CSR: Planning and strategising” of 
this handbook, include the following:
•	 Deciding the thematic areas from 
Schedule VII of the Companies 
Act, 2013, beneficiary groups and 
geographies that it will target based on 
the inputs from participants.
•	 Developing internal processes to track 
individual contribution by members 
and their utilisation in CSR activities, 
finalising long-term projects based on 
projected contributions by members 
and addressing non-payment by 
members.
The CSR policy of individual SMEs should 
be designed to allow for flexibility in case of 
a collaborative effort to undertake CSR. This 
implies that the policy, over and above the 
guidelines mentioned in the section “Step 
one: Develop CSR strategy and policy”, 
should allow the following:
•	 Flexibility in selecting thematic areas 
from Schedule VII of Companies 
Act, 2013, beneficiary groups and 
geographies as per the priorities of the 
entire association.
•	 Support to initiate CSR programmes 
to the extent possible, in case the 
association is abandoned.
The next steps involved in the due 
diligence of implementation or the concept 
development partner are:
•	 Project development
•	 Operationalising institutional 
mechanism
•	 Contracting
•	 Budgeting and payments
•	 Monitoring 
•	 Impact measurement 
Reporting and communication are as 
described in section “CSR: Planning and 
strategising” 
In cases where the total CSR funds 
are insufficient to cover the cost of 
collaboration, SMEs can also contribute to 
the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund 
or any other fund set up by the central 
government or the state governments as 
per activity ix of the Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 

26 PwCAppendix 1
Comparative analysis of the three choices for legal entity 
Differential factors Trust Society Section 8 company22 
(earlier known as Section 25 company)
Basic document Trust deed which contains objects of 
the trust (bye-law)Memorandum of association
Articles of association with rules and 
regulationsMemorandum of association
Articles of association
Formation Simple Simple Slightly difficult
Jurisdiction Deputy registrar or charity 
commissionerRegistrar of Societies Registrar of Companies
Legislation / statute Relevant state trust act Societies Registration Act 1860 Companies Act 2013
Objectives Social benefits and charitable Literary, charitable, scientific and 
resource orientedNonprofit activities
Re-amendment 
or   modification of 
objectsAlteration can be undertaken only 
by the founder or settlerEasy, legal procedures Complicated, legal procedures
Required members Minimum = 2, maximum = no limit Minimum = 7, maximum = no limit Minimum = 7, maximum = no limit
Registration As trust with the registrar As society with society registrar As per Companies Act under Section 8 (earlier 
Section 25)
Stamp duty 4% of trust property value will be 
executed in non judicial stamp paper 
with the registrarNo stamp paper required for 
memorandum of association, and 
rules and regulationsNo stamp paper required for memorandum and 
articles of association
Name Easy to choose Easy to choose Prior approval required from Registrar of 
Companies
Management board Trustees Governing body Board of directors and  management 
committee
Succession in 
managementBy election By election By appointment
Meetings No provisions Annual meeting as per law, 
governing body meeting as per the 
rules of society,Quite extensive as per the provision of 
Company Law
Statutory regulations Nominal Limited Maturable and exhaustive
Membership transfer Not possible Not possible Free or control as per desire
Member admission Not applicable Governing body control General body or board control through issue 
of capital
Payment to members As notified in trust deed Not restricted As approved by company and state
22 The non-profit organizsation formerly known as Section 25 companies are now called Section 8 companies after the introduction of Companies Act, 
2013.
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      27Appendix 2
Designing a volunteering programme 
As part of their corporate social 
responsibility efforts, companies encourage 
their employees to volunteer for a cause 
(usually pre-selected by corporate 
human resources or foundations) during 
work hours under formalised employee 
volunteering programmes (EVPs). These 
EVPs involve substantial opportunity 
cost for employers and therefore must be 
carefully planned and executed.
Who is a corporate 
volunteer? 
A corporate volunteer is an employee who 
actively takes on a task, responsibility, or 
project on his or her own accord without 
needing to be assigned or told to do so as 
part of his or her daily job duties. Corporate 
volunteering is generally considered an 
altruistic activity and is intended to promote 
larger social or environmental good or 
improve the quality of life of a target 
beneficiary or a community. 
Most often, there are no financial gains 
for the work or service provided by such 
volunteers. However, sometimes this 
volunteering involves incentives such as 
personality or profile development, skill 
development, socialisation, and fun. In 
certain areas of volunteering work such as 
health services, education or emergency 
rescue volunteers receive training before 
they can contribute. 
However, most volunteers serve on a need 
basis without any prior educational or work 
experience of related background.
Several design parameters and related 
activities need to considered while 
developing an EVP:  Design parameter Activities
Organisation goals: Laying out the overall 
objective of a company from its EVP.• Identify volunteering goals of your 
organisation.
Employee volunteering mechanism: 
Developing the institutional framework under 
which employee volunteerism can be channelled 
for a larger good.• Establish institutional ownership of 
volunteering programme.
• Establish volunteer codes of practice.
• Establish volunteering governing principles.
• Design volunteer programmes and projects.
• Draft volunteering agreement including 
the statement of volunteer rights and 
responsibilities.
• Lay out roles and responsibilities of 
coordinators for the EVP.
• Ensure continuity in volunteer work.
Recruitment and enrolment: Attracting, 
screening and selecting qualified individuals for 
a specific volunteer role.• Lay out the volunteer recruitment and 
enrolment process.
• Create volunteer roles and writing position 
descriptions.
• Segment and target volunteers.
• Write volunteer advertisements.
• Process enquiries and applications.
• Undertake selection and interview process.
Inducting and training: Welcoming new 
volunteers to the EVP and preparing them for 
their role. It provides an introduction to the 
working environment where they will volunteer 
and available resources. The process will cover 
volunteer rights, the terms and conditions of 
volunteering, legal and compliance requirements 
and health and safety guidance. It also covers 
any necessary training needs of the volunteers to 
perform their duties.  • Design and deliver induction and orientation 
programmes.
• Train volunteers.
Mentoring and supervising: Ad hoc assistance 
by a more experienced and knowledgeable 
person to help facilitate a less experienced 
and knowledgeable person to reach his or 
her individual goals and objectives in the 
volunteering programme. Supervision involves 
management of the individual’s performance 
against a prescribed objective on a routine basis 
and providing actionable feedback.• Design and deliver mentoring programme.
• Assign, supervise and establish key 
performance indicators for volunteer work.
• Provide performance feedback to volunteers.
• Keep volunteers motivated.
• Manage disputes and grievances.
Rewarding and recognising: Rewards and 
recognition are given when an organisation 
wants to motivate volunteers in achieving a 
goal or organisational objective. Rewards and 
recognition are designed to distinguish and 
motivate employees. This is important in the case 
of volunteering where employees do not have 
any financial incentives.• Make volunteering attractive.
• Develop awards and recognition framework.
Encouraging diversity: Encouraging employees 
with unique experiences and backgrounds 
to work together to increase productivity, 
effectiveness and responsiveness to changing 
conditions to enhance their contribution and 
benefit from the volunteering exercise.• Communicate the value of diversity.
• Develop programmes to encourage diversity.
• Recruit and enroll volunteers from diverse 
backgrounds.
28 PwCA community can be defined as a 
homogenous group of individuals bound 
together geographically, politically, 
culturally or by certain values, principles or 
shared characteristics. For the purposes of 
this discussion, we define community as the 
collection of stakeholders who reside in the 
local vicinity of company operations and 
who rely on or are impacted by its shared 
resources.
Community engagement is defined as 
a process in which the needs, priorities 
and values of various individuals (not 
directly associated with or dependent 
on a given company) and that of other 
external organisations in a community 
are incorporated into corporate decision-
making and management activities.   Appendix 3
Community engagement
Steps for robust community engagement Key activities
Assess the local context: Understanding the 
characteristics and complexities of the local 
landscape and use this information for strategic 
planning of community engagement.• Undertake socioeconomic assessment.
• Map local communities and networks.
• Map key institutions engaged with local 
communities.
• Identify potential partners.
Involve communities: Support and facilitation 
of the process of community-driven planning to 
enable communities to define their own goals, 
identify opportunities and assets they plan to 
utilise or share, and prioritise areas of potential 
engagement with the company and other local 
development actors.• Identify objectives of community engagement 
and its guiding principles.
• Enable community planning, visioning and 
prioritisation through participatory methods.
• Manage community expectations and 
perceptions. 
Identify and categorise key stakeholders: 
Creation of a list of the individuals, groups, and 
institutions that could affect or be affected by any 
community engagement project. This step identi -
fies and generates knowledge about individuals 
and local organisations in order to understand 
their behaviours, intentions, inter-relations and 
interests.• Identify and segment various target groups.
• Undertake needs assessment.
Set operational parameters: Setting up the 
scope and target of such an engagement in line 
with the activities a company will support.• Develop a baseline.
• Identify the company and any shared assets 
available. 
• Identify investment areas and budgets.
• Develop key performance indicators.
Project implementation: Identifying the 
best way to deliver a project in view of several 
variables, such as the objectives of community 
engagement, project timeframe, budget and local 
operating context.• Select implementation model: in-house or 
foundation, implementation partner, multi-
stakeholder partnership, any other hybrid 
model.
• Engage and influence key opinion leaders in 
local community.
• Develop community forums.
• Invest in capacity building of community.
• Co-design detailed development projects with 
community participation.
• Operationalise development projects and 
manage project cycle.
Measure and communicate results: Monitoring 
and evaluation to use the information collected 
in future planning and communicating these 
results to all stakeholders including the com -
munity, the company and other development 
partners.• Document results on key performance 
indicators.
• Calculate social return on investments.
• Develop communications strategy to 
periodically disseminate information to 
community and other stakeholders.Tools, technical guidance  and 
standards to be used:
•	 Participatory rural appraisal 
•	 Focus group discussions
•	 Door-to-door surveys
Handbook on Corporate Social Responsibility in India      29Appendix 4
CII and Credibility Alliance’s guidelines for identifying NGO partners
1. Identity: The NGO should exist and be 
registered under the appropriate law 
under which it is governed. It should 
comply with the provisions of the Act 
and other relevant laws. 
• The organisation has been functioning 
for a minimum of one year from the 
date of registration.
• The physical address given by the 
organisation is verifiable.
• The organisation is registered as a trust 
or society or Section 25 company.
• Registration certificates and documents 
issued by the appropriate authority are 
available upon request.
2. Vision, aims, objectives, 
achievements: The vision, purpose and 
aims of the NGO should be explicitly 
stated and be reflected in the activities 
being undertaken.
• A vision, purpose or mission, which 
drives the organisation, is articulated 
beyond the registration documents in 
the form of activities and projects, etc.
• The organisation has a defined aim and 
a set of objectives.
• The organisation is able to show 
performance through defined indicators 
against stated objectives.
3. Governance:  There must be a 
clear commitment towards good 
governance for the NGO to enhance its 
effectiveness, serve all stakeholders, 
meet the needs of society and to ensure 
its accountability towards society in 
accordance with its charter of objects 
and purposes.
• The organisation has a governing 
board.
• The organisation follows a consultative 
and democratic decision-making 
process.
• There is disclosure of the details of 
board members viz, name, age, gender, 
position and occupation. All family 
affiliations should be indicated.
• The board has at least two meetings 
a year suitably spaced with quorum 
stipulated in its own articles of 
association, reviewing the functioning 
of the NGO, evaluating the projects 
undertaken by them and discussing the 
way forward.• The organisation is not for profit and 
its resources are deployed only for 
accomplishing the objectives for which 
it has been formed.
• The organisation has attained 
recognition under Section 12A of the 
Income Tax Act. (80G of the Income Tax 
Act is preferable).
• Minutes of board meetings are 
documented and circulated.
• The board approves programmes, 
budgets, annual activity reports and 
audited financial statements.
• The board ensures the organisation’s 
compliance with applicable laws and 
statutory regulations.
• All pending legal disputes are declared.
4. Operations: Operations refer to the 
capacity to conduct programmes and 
administrative activities efficiently and 
effectively in the public interest. The 
NGO should have norms in respect 
to the nature of the programme it 
undertakes, the nature and style of 
its management; and the roles and 
responsibilities of its human resources 
including personnel and volunteers.
• The activities are in line with the vision, 
aim and objectives of the organisation.
• The organisation periodically reviews 
the progress of programmes.
• The accounts of the organisation are 
regularly maintained and those with an 
annual income above 50,000 INR are 
audited by the chartered accountant. 
• The roles and responsibilities 
are defined for all personnel and 
volunteers.
• All personnel are issued letters of 
contract and appointment. 
• An appropriate HR policy is in place.
5.   Accountability and transparency:  
Accountability and transparency are 
key requirements of good governance 
and necessary for building trust among 
stakeholders. This works as a testimony 
to the fact that the organisation has 
been working efficiently and effectively. 
• A financial management policy has 
been developed and is adhered to.• Signed audited statements are prepared 
annually and available on request: 
balance sheet, income and expenditure 
statement, receipts and payments 
account, schedules to these, notes on 
accounts and the statutory auditor’s 
report.
• Statement of accounts indicating 
whether constructed on a cash or 
accrual basis.
• There are no serious adverse notes on 
the veracity of the functioning of the 
organisation. 
• There are no material transactions 
involving conflict of interest between a 
board or staff member and/or adverse 
comment and observation relating to 
operational issues or financial dealing 
in the record of public authority. 
•  The organisation’s annual report is 
distributed and communicated to 
stakeholders and others and is made 
available upon request every year, 
within eight months of the end of the 
organisation’s financial year.
• The annual report contains a 
description of the main activities, a 
review of the progress and results 
achieved in the year and information 
on board member names, positions, 
remuneration or reimbursement as well 
as brief financial details.
• The NGO shall disclose their funding 
details i.e. the sources of funds, 
annual revenue (O&M) and project 
expenditure. The organisation shall 
produce timely reports on the use and 
management of funds which should be 
made available on request.
• Dovetailing with government schemes 
will be preferred.
• The NGO should give out accurate 
information regarding their projects 
i.e. survey reports, target population, 
location, sustainability of the projects, 
their success ratio, etc on request.
The organisation should be ready to 
submit an affidavit by the authorised 
signatory attesting to the authenticity of 
the information given.
Appendix 5
Illustrative list of NGOs and platforms for information on NGOs prepared by CII
1. GiveIndia  (http://www.giveindia.org/): GiveIndia is a donation platform that 
allows companies to support a cause of choice from about 200 NGOs that have been 
scrutinised for transparency and credibility.
2. Voluntary Action Network India  (http://www.vaniindia.org/) : Voluntary Action 
Network India works towards building a society where voluntarism and voluntary 
organisations play a dominant role in social cohesion, economic empowerment and 
nation-building.
3. Charities Aid Foundation  (http://www.cafindia.org/):  CAF India provides strategic 
and management support to corporates, individuals and PSUs in order to ensure 
greater impact of their philanthropic and CSR investments. 
4. Oxfam India  (http://www.oxfamindia.org/) : The Oxfams are rights-based 
organisations that fight poverty and injustice by linking grassroots programming 
(through partner NGOs) to local, national and global advocacy and policy-making.
5. Confederation of Voluntary Associations  (covanetwork.org/): COVA works in the 
areas of communal harmony, peace and social justice through sensitisation of all 
sections of society and empowerment of the marginalised and the poor.
6. Partners in Change  (http://www.picindia.org/):  PiC focusses on building sustainable 
partnerships between the corporate sector and social development initiatives in India. 
PiC’s goal has been to become an organisation that is recognised both by companies 
as well as civil society as a reliable facilitator for building partnerships for social 
development.
7. Credibility Alliance  (http://credibilityalliance.org):  Credibility Alliance’s mission is to 
build the credibility of the voluntary sector through the creation and promotion of the 
norms of good governance and public disclosure.
8. Samhita (http://samhita.org/):  Samhita provides a platform for NGOs to showcase 
their work and attract donation.
9. Indian Confederation of NGOs  (http://www.icongo.in/):  iCONGO is a collective of 
various credible, transparent and accountable NGO members registered as promoting 
members and privilege members.
10. GuideStar India  (http://www.guidestarindia.org/):  GuideStar India is India’s leading 
provider of NGO information. Their portal provides a fully searchable database of 
reliable and comparable information on over 3,500 NGOs.
About CII
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an environment 
conducive to the growth of industry in India, partnering industry and government alike 
through advisory and consultative processes. CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, 
industry-led and industry-managed organisation, playing a proactive role in India’s 
development process. Founded over 117 years ago, it is India’s premier business association, 
with a direct membership of over 8100 organisations from the private as well as public 
sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 companies 
from around 400 national and regional sectoral associations.
CII catalyses change by working closely with government on policy issues, enhancing 
efficiency, competitiveness and expanding business opportunities for industry through 
a range of specialised services and global linkages. It also provides a platform for 
sectoral consensus building and networking. Emphasis is laid on projecting a positive 
image of business, assisting industry to identify and execute corporate citizenship 
programmes. Partnerships with over 120 NGOs across the country carry forward our 
initiatives in integrated and inclusive development, which include health, education, 
livelihood, diversity management, skill development and water, to name a few. CII has 
envisaged a national movement for mainstreaming CSR for sustained inclusiveness as 
part of its social development agenda. The CII National Committee on Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Community Development was constituted in 2001 to make CSR an 
actionable business agenda. The committee develops CSR guidelines and promotes the 
sharing of CSR experiences and best practices. CII also organises an annual CSR summit 
to enable stakeholders to review and strengthen the CSR movement. CII development 
initiatives ensure the continuity of these programmes, particularly with respect to women 
empowerment, industry-NGO partnership, and persons with disabilities.
With 64 offices, including nine Centres of Excellence, in India, and 7 overseas offices 
in Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, and USA, as well as institutional 
partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference 
point for Indian industry and the international business community.Confederation of Indian 
Industry
249-F, Sector 18 Udyog Vihar,  
Phase IV, Gurgaon-122015, Haryana, 
India
Telephone: +91 124 4014060-67 
Fax:+91 124 4014080
Email: jawahar.k@cii.in  
sarbani.chakravarty@cii.in
PwC India 
Building 10, Tower C, DLF Cyber City
Gurgaon-122002,  
Haryana, India
Telephone: 91 124 330 6000
Fax: + 91 124 330 6999
Email: prashant.vikram.singh@
in.pwc.com  
sachin.shukla@in.pwc.comAbout PwC 
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a 
network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to 
delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and 
find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a 
separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 123 - Nov 2013 CSRHandbook.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
