Title: pwc_exec-summary
Date Published: 2013-02-06 16:37:48+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_exec-summary.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

PwC4Executive 
summary“The future lies with those companies 
who see the poor as their customers.” 
C K Prahalad 
Background
The ‘global emerging middle’ already 
accounts for 2.3 billion people 
globally and is expected to represent 
a combined annual market in excess 
of 6 trillion USD by 2021. Presently, 
470 million people in India belong to 
the ‘emerging middle income’ group, 
earning 1 to 5 USD per day16, and 
about 40% of the households are 
financially excluded1. In India, this 
market is expected to cross 1 trillion 
USD by 202116. Organisations which 
build capabilities in this segment can 
go beyond their country’s borders 
and compete in other such markets. 
The way forward
For India to be 100% financial 
included, all the constituents need 
to play their part. The government, 
through policies must protect 
customers’ interest along with 
helping financial institutions 
build profitable business models. 
Banks need to move from looking 
at inclusive markets as a ‘cost to 
business’ to ‘growth opportunity’. 
New and innovative small 
enterprises addressing inclusive 
financial markets must be supported 
and those with a strong distribution 
network need to partner with banks 
to help deliver financial services. Today is the ‘future’ that CK Prahalad referred to, as organisations 
innovate and try to make available goods and services to the inclusive 
markets, defined as the middle to lower economic market segment. 
Providing a bouquet of financial services to these markets is a profitable 
business opportunity waiting to be realised. 

DNA model for inclusive financial services5Government policies for 
inclusive financial markets
The government has the keys 
to unlock the inclusive financial 
market through policies, mandates, 
regulatory requirements, subsidies 
and taxes. Joseph E Stiglitz, Nobel 
laureate said, “Even though market 
forces help shape the degree of 
inequality, government policies 
shape those market forces.” 
Governments cannot achieve their 
objective of financial inclusion only 
through diktats. They need to help 
financial institutions create viable 
business models, whilst protecting 
the interests of the poor. They have to foster innovation by allowing 
small and new players to participate, 
be flexible in allowing more banks to 
operate in this segment, incentivise 
banks to create a different operating 
model for this segment and allow market forces to operate. 
The Indian government has taken 
many positive initiatives recently, 
through its various departments – the Ministry of Finance, the RBI, the UIDAI, the Department of IT and the state governments. Transfer of 
welfare subsidies (overall estimated 
at 3000 billion INR of which 1500 
billion INR is presently cash based), 
called ‘cash transfers’ to bank 
accounts through ‘Aadhaar’ will 
provide the much-needed impetus 
for banks to open accounts and 
treat this customer base seriously. 
While this is expected to happen 
over the next few months, it will 
impact only 43 districts out of the 
600 in the country. The reality 
is that there are no established last-mile delivery channels at the 
ground level. It is estimated that 
more than 40% of the 120,000 
outlets are inactive and 10 to 40% of 140 million ‘no-frills’ account are 
inactive.  Only organisations which 
have an already established network 
have the capability to deliver the 
last mile for financial services, in a 
sustainable way. The government 
needs to foster collaboration 
between banks and organisations 
that have the distribution network, 
through a tiered partnership model-telecom and consumer companies 
for villages of larger population, and 
postal departments, microfinance 
companies and co-operatives for 
villages with lesser population. 
Merely opening accounts and facilitating welfare benefits 
electronically are not enough. The 
usage of accounts and other financial 
services needs to be ensured. One 
way of doing this is by providing 
incentives for a short period for the 
usage of ‘no frills accounts’. On new 
policies issued by the government, 
clarity needs to replace ambiguity. 
Innovative programmes like the 
pilot of the UIDAI’s e-KYC and the 
RBI’s ’meaningful financial inclusion’ 
in Ernakulum district in Kerala 
are good, but not enough. The 
government needs to encourage 
innovation through smaller 
enterprises, i.e. regional banks like 
Krishna Bhima Samruddhi Local 
Area Bank, Business Correspondents 
(BCs), enterprises with technologies 
for low-cost Core Banking Solutions 
(CBS) and last-mile innovations. Some of this will be possible with 
the passing of the Banking Laws 
Amendment Bill 2011. 
The ‘priority sector’ lending target 
of 32 to 40% for agriculture, SMEs, education and housing, while good on intention needs to be reviewed 
to be in line with the contribution 
of the agriculture sector and 
infrastructure required. The needs 
of the agricultural community are 
more than just financial credit, and 
these needs have to be addressed 
concurrently. Support is required 
more for creating producer groups, 
sorting, grading and cold storage 
facilities near the farm-gate. The 
large Kisan Credit Card portfolio 
that banks are holding needs to be 
closely reviewed for non-performing 
assets (NPA). Affordable insurance 
and pension financial products 
through reduced distribution cost 
are required by the community. 
Banks -shift in DNA required 
for profitable business in 
inclusive financial markets
Banks, till recently, did not focus 
on the inclusive market segment, 
as there was no incentive to do so. 
Growth objectives could be achieved 
by servicing the urban, economically 
advantaged segment. Today, with 
some segments of this market showing signs of saturation, and 
stringent regulatory requirements, 
banks need to be more strategic 
in the inclusive markets business 
and move from ‘cost to business’ to 
‘growth opportunity’.
PwC6To build a profitable business serving 
the underserved requires banks to 
make a paradigm shift in their DNA.
Different DNA
New org. structure & products 
Align new partners 
D: Different DNA 
Low-cost airlines and Walmart were 
created with a different DNA, and 
similarly banks need a different 
DNA to address the lower economic 
segment. New ways of doing things 
will drive the ‘low cost high volume’ 
business. This may mean carving 
out a completely new subsidiary 
as changing the DNA is not a small 
task. The profile of people has to be 
different, and customer needs have 
to be satisfied in completely new 
ways. Products have to be designed 
for high volume and each element 
of cost has to be brought down to a 
fraction of the original. The main 
elements of costs are as follows:
• Nearly, 40- 60% of costs for a 
rural branch and indirect cost 
of a customer service provider 
(CSP) impacted by high attrition 
rates of 25 to 45%.
• Present CBS costs which 
range from 80 to 200 INR per 
account per annum is too high 
for such large numbers of ‘no frills’ accounts. There are few 
technology providers who offer 
a low-cost CBS for this segment 
of the market. Innovative enterprises can explore this 
unmet need for low-cost CBS 
at 8 to 12 INR per account per 
annum.• The cost of rent which can be 
reduced through shared services 
and a hub-and-spoke model with 
Business Correspondent (BC) 
outlets
• The cost of customer acquisition 
is 50 to 150 INR per customer 
and can be brought down to a 
fraction, if the CSP is already 
servicing the customer through 
re-selling pre-paid airtime or 
similar services.
N: New organisation structures  
and new products 
Private sector banks have different 
units taking care of the liability and 
asset segment of the business i.e. 
loans to microfinance companies 
through the ‘financial institutions’ 
unit, gold loans and smaller value 
loans through different units, and 
no-frills account through a different 
unit of the bank.   Public sector 
banks have a financial inclusion 
unit in the head office and the 
‘circles’ or rural branches are not 
accountable to them for business. 
These disaggregated organisation 
structures do not serve the needs 
of the bank for the inclusive 
market segment. New organisation 
structures to get operational 
leverage will help banks address this 
segment. 
For financial products to be a success, 
it is important to understand the 
needs of the customer. Is it the need to have money to send their 
children to college, or to take care 
of them in their old age? What are 
the cash cycles that the sugar farmer 
goes through versus the cotton farmer? For the purchase of financial 
products, there is a ‘price-trust 
inversion’. In the beginning, trust is 
critical for adoption, demonstrated 
by customers who are prepared to 
pay prohibitive prices to the ‘hawala’ 
to transfer money, primarily because they trust him. Initially, banks, BCs 
and CSPs must focus on building 
trust, as price is not a consideration. 
Once there is trust in a new product 
and CSP, usage will increase and 
over a period the product gets 
commoditised. This is when price 
sensitivity starts coming into play.
 Insights on the middle to lower 
income market segment and 
designing innovative products 
to meet their needs is critical 
for success. Learnings from 
successful traditional financial 
products like ‘chit funds’ 
and gold loans are valuable. 
International examples of 
innovation are the ‘Jipange 
Kusuve’ of M-Pesa which is a 
‘lend to save’ model.
DNA model for inclusive financial services7A: Align new partners for this 
market 
Banks find it difficult to reach the 
last mile due to staff constraints 
and expenses. They have been 
partnering with many BCs. In 
fact, some banks have 5 to 25 BC 
partners. Managing a large number 
of partnerships is a challenge and 
banks will have to optimise to 
manage better. A scientific basis for 
growth in Tier V and Tier VI villages 
(population of less than 10000) must 
be based on a tiered partnership 
model. Partnerships have to be made 
with BCs who have a viable business 
model themselves. E.g. re-seller of 
pre-paid airtime can add financial 
services to their bouquet of products, 
and make the business model more 
viable. Organisations with a strong 
distribution network and the skills 
to manage this network can deliver 
financial inclusion. Banks must also 
partner with telecom and consumer 
companies for villages with a higher 
population, and postal departments 
and microfinance and co-operatives 
f o r  v i l l a g e s  w i t h  l e s s e r  p o p u l a t i o n .                                                
Telecom operators seem to have a 
natural advantage as partners with 
banks for mobile financial services, 
as they have the technology and 
access to customers and data. We 
believe that mobile financial services 
will take off more in developing 
economies rather than developed economies, as M-Pesa has proven. In 
the developed economies, internet 
banking using computers is already 
ubiquitous and there is no real 
motivation to change this to mobile 
banking unless there is a completely new way of managing money. In 
developing economies on the other 
hand, internet banking is not an 
option and mobile banking will give customers what mobile phones gave 
people who could not get a fixed 
telephone line. 
Telecom operators must seize 
this second opportunity to drive 
innovation by providing mobile 
finance, leveraging on their vast 
network and proven strengths to manage this network. Telecom 
operators can make a profitable 
business of financial services for 
inclusive markets by adopting the 
following:
• Use their experience and access 
to data to drive innovative 
financial products  
• Represent the bank for not 
just remittances and savings 
products but the entire bouquet 
of banking products  
• Sell the concept of financial 
services, to educate the retailer 
and customer
• Manage the distribution channel 
aggressively for financial services, 
just the way the telecom channel 
was managed by marketing 
schemes for customers and  
trade promotions
This is a time to for the government, 
financial services organisations, 
telecom companies, and grass-root 
organisations to make history by 
providing financial services in a 
sustainable way to the inclusive 
market segment in India. Examples for inclusive 
financial services markets
The Central Bank of Philippines - 
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas - has set 
up a dedicated unit that specialises 
in new technologies. “While we 
allow the market to lead, we cannot afford as regulators, to get left 
behind, we have to stay very close 
to the innovators just to make sure things don’t go out of hand. The target market are people who may 
not have had extensive experience 
of use of financial services and 
are also in that regard potentially 
vulnerable,” said the Deputy 
Governor
30.
The percentage of population who 
have bank account (for the bottom 
40%) in some of the Asian countries 
is comparatively high, i.e. ranges 
from 50 to 60% for Malaysia, Sri 
Lanka and Thailand, whereas  it is 
only 27% for India.
Banks such as the SBI, Yes Bank 
and BCs such as Eko and Suvidhaa 
have proved that domestic 
remittances are a profitable 
business. At Yes Bank , total value 
of remittance between August and 
December 2011 is 800.0 million 
INR approximately and fee income  
is  8.0 million INR approximately27. 
New products must take learnings 
from the successes of traditional 
products such as chit funds, postal 
savings and newer innovations  
like the lend-to-save model in 
Kenya of ‘Jipange Kusave’ (M-Pesa)’.
Non-bank financial institutions 
(NBFCs) with gold loans, vehicle 
loans and now low-income  
housing loans has shown the way to  
build profitable and low risk assets 
for the inclusive  markets.
The ‘Sarva Shakti Suraksha’   
of Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, 
is a customised insurance cum 
savings product for members of 
co-operatives. 1
2
3
4
5
6
PwC34Contacts 
Jamuna Rao Verghese
Advisor, Inclusive Market
Financial Services jamuna.r.verghese@in.pwc.com 
Harsh Bisht 
Executive Director, AdvisoryPwC India 
harsh.bisht@in.pwc.com

