Title: Managing in uncertain times: HR at a crossroads
Date Published: 2013-06-20 00:59:32-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_managing-in-uncertain-times-hr-at-crossroads.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Managing in 
uncertain times:  
HR at a crossroads
Implications of the 16th 
Annual CEO Survey for 
Indian HR leaders
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     2  
The 16th Annual CEO Survey results 
have thrown some interesting opinions 
from Indian business leaders. In spite 
of the Indian economy growing at the 
lowest rate in a decade, Indian CEOs 
continue to be optimistic about their 
growth prospects. However, they have 
voiced deep concerns about the VUCA 
(volatile, uncertain, complex and 
ambiguous) times we are operating in. 
Notably, 81% of the 73 Indian CEOs 
surveyed have stated that the biggest 
threat to growth prospects of their 
enterprise is the unavailability of key 
skills. So what does it imply for the 
Indian HR leader? Pathways being pursued 
by Indian CEOs to create 
value in these timesTargeting pockets 
of opportunity
Improving 
operational 
efficienciesConcentrating 
on the customerStrengthening the 
bridge between 
business and 
societyWhat CEOs 
expect from  
their HR leader
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     3  Aligning HR with business expectations
of Indian CEOs see the 
unavailability of key skills 
as the biggest threat to 
their growth prospects.
Clearly, the people agenda has entered the boardrooms. 
Indian CEOs expect their HR leaders to support the 
business on multiple fronts today. While the overarching 
HR agenda remains unchanged, finer nuances of the job 
appear to be changing. For example, the war for quality 
talent has intensified but the focus on hiring at any cost 
is diminishing. Existing growth-related HR priorities 
and securing the leadership pipeline will co-exist with 
the pressures of driving organisational efficiencies. At 
the same time, areas such as managing the environment, 
which HR leaders post-1990s would have seldom had the 
opportunity or necessity to focus on, will make a return. 
So what does the Indian HR leader need to focus  
on in the coming year? 
81%
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     4  Focus in the coming year
Powering 
the growth 
agenda
Facilitating a 
cultural shift Managing the 
environment
Imperatives for 
Indian HR leaders
Securing the 
leadership 
pipelineChampioning 
operational 
efficienciesHow can we support the 
organisation’s growth aspirations in an efficient and 
cost-effective manner? 
What capabilities do we need to develop in order to 
manage the environment that our business operates in ?How can we drive a customer-focussed and inclusive culture 
where diversity both cross-cultural 
and otherwise?
How can we drive efficiencies across 
the organisation? How can we make 
the HR function more efficient and 
demonstrate tangible benefits we deliver to the business?What innovative strategies should we use to develop the leadership 
pipeline and support capability 
building till the last mile?
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     5  Powering the growth agenda
“I think the emerging markets will continue to see much 
higher rates of growth, particularly India, where we 
expect the three-year average between 7 and 8%. So 
even though the growth this year could be 5.5%,  
we think it’s going to climb back up.”
Shikha Sharma
MD and CEO, Axis Bank Ltd
While…
• Sixty-three per cent of Indian CEOs are 
‘very confident’ of their companies’ revenue 
growth prospects over the next 12 months. 
• Forty-one per cent are looking at organic 
growth in existing markets in the next  
12 months.
• Eighty-one per cent see the availability  
of key skills as the biggest threat to  
growth prospects.
On the other hand…
• Fifty-one per cent expect to increase head 
count by less than 5%.
• Only 29% consider ‘filling talent gaps’  
as a key investment priority in the next  
12 months.
At the same time…
• Global CEOs consider India as the fifth most 
important market for future growth.
• Forty-four per cent of them would like 
to capitalise on the India opportunity by 
accessing local talent bases.Powering the growth agenda
• The war for good quality talent will further 
intensify. At the same time, there will be  further 
discernment and thoughts around the kind of 
talent to hire, and how well he or she fits into the 
organisational requirements and culture.
• While additional resources (though not 
substantial) may be looked at to power 
organisational growth aspirations, it may not 
necessarily come with a commensurate increase  
in resourcing and manpower budgets.
• The focus will be on doing more with less.
• The need to look for more more efficient and  
cost-effective sources of hiring may need to  
be explored.
• Automation will need to be utilised more 
aggressively not only to support hiring but also to 
free up resources to support the growth agenda.
• While organisations may be willing to invest in the 
acquisition or development of key skills, this may 
come at the expense of skills or talent segments 
felt to be non-core.   
• The key lies in strengthening the employer brand.CEOs speak…Implication for HR leaders
Will salary differentials between key talent 
and other employees increase further
Are we ready to trade off internal equity to 
buy quality talent?
Which non-traditional sources can we 
tap to  acquire high quality talent?1
2
3Points to ponder CEOs speak…
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     6  Facilitating a cultural shift
“ The most important stakeholder is the customer.  
If there is no customer, we have no business.”
A M Naik
Executive Chairman, Larsen & Toubro Ltd
• Approximately 40% of CEOs in India feel that 
growing their customer base and enhancing 
their customer service are the top two 
priorities in the next 12 months.
• Eighty-nine per cent wish to strengthen their 
engagement with customers and clients.
• Fifty-three per cent wish to invest in a 
culture of ethical behaviour.
Also…
• Forty-seven per cent intend to increase their 
focus on workplace diversity and inclusion.
• Forty per cent will focus on board  
level diversity.
• Approximately 40% of Indian CEOs may 
focus on completing a cross-border M&A  
in the next 12 months.
And…
• Sixty-four per cent see over-regulation as a 
key economic threat.
• Seventy-four per cent were extremely or 
somewhat concerned about corruption in  
the country.Driving a customer focussed culture 
• With regulatory pressures and a need to reach  
out to customers in a better manner, HR will be 
called upon to drive a more ethical,  customer-
focussed culture.
• Taking this to the last mile may be a tall task, since 
an organisation’s culture in many ways reflects the 
culture of the society we live in.
• This may require HR leaders to relook at a 
spectrum of issues including hiring sources, 
performance metrics and reward philosophies of 
customer-facing staff.  
Focus on diversity and inclusion
• Simultaneously, the focus on diversity may  
mean the need to introduce inclusive people 
policies which take into account flexibility 
required at different life stages and by different 
employee segments (women, Gen-Y, physically 
challenged, etc.) 
• Driving the diversity agenda may also require 
a relook at recruitment and career progression 
strategies for better representation of selected 
employee segments at senior levels. 
Cultural sensitisation 
• With cross-border M&A being high on the CEO’s 
agenda, HR needs to strengthen its capability in 
managing post-merger integration. 
• Simultaneously, HR needs to facilitate a cultural 
shift where cross-cultural sensitivity is respected 
and embraced. Implication for HR leaders
CEOs speak…
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     7  Securing the leadership pipeline
“ The biggest threat is finding the leadership talent 
which can make things happen internationally.”
A M Naik
Executive Chairman, Larsen & Toubro Ltd
• While a vast majority of Indian CEOs  
say they have used a variety of talent 
development strategies to strengthen  
their leadership pipeline with varying levels 
of success, 81% intend to bring changes to  
their talent strategies.
• Seventy-four per cent intend to increase 
investment in developing a skilled workforce.
• Forty four per cent feel they have to pay their 
top executives at or more than competition to 
retain them.
However…
• Seventy-one per cent feel that strategic 
decision making is still centralised at top 
executive and board level.
• Approximately 50% feel that creating a 
skilled workforce should be the government’s 
priority as well.
• Thirty-four per cent are willing to explore 
alternatives to how top executives are 
rewarded in response to shareholders and 
public reaction. Securing the leadership pipeline
• Clearly for securing a leadership pipeline ‘build’ is 
the preferred strategy over ‘buy’. 
• HR leaders need to look for more effective 
interventions to develop the next line of 
leaders who are adequately prepared to handle 
VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity and 
ambiguity). 
• Strengthening the leadership pipeline is today 
a business prerogative. With increasing focus 
of boards and public on top executive pay, any 
change in the reward philosophy may have 
implications on retention of top leadership. A well-
developed next line of leaders will help businesses 
weather such impact. 
• Interventions for capability and leadership 
development need to percolate to the last mile 
within the organisation and beyond. 
• HR should champion greater public-private and 
industry-academia partnerships to develop a 
skilled workforce which takes on challenges of  
the future.    Implication for HR leaders
CEOs speak…
Where are we going wrong in our  
talent strategy? 
Where does the onus of development 
lie - with the organisation or with the 
individual? Are we losing out on potential 
leaders because of lack of organisational 
will and ownership of talent?
Will we see a period of deceleration of 
salary growth? 
How shall we manage expectations of 
employees who today feel that they are 
‘entitled’ to salary rises every year and with 
every job switch?1
2
3
4Points to ponder 
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     8  Championing operational efficiencies
“ To build a long-term business which is valuable and 
sustainable you have to set goals other than growth.  
We have always set goals for profitability along with 
growth, but we also aim to ensure that we have a 
proposition that is valued by both the customer and  
the employee.”
Shikha Sharma
MD and CEO, Axis Bank Ltd
While…
• Improving operational efficiencies continues 
to be a top priority for 36% of Indian CEOs.
• Fifty-three per cent intend to initiate cost 
saving initiatives in the next 12 months.
• However, there has been a reduction in the 
focus towards cost reduction as compared to 
2012 (60%).
At the same time…
• Forty-one per cent consider implementing 
new technology as a key investment priority 
in the next year.
• Eighty-one per cent intend to bring changes 
to their organisation structure.
• Close to one-third of Indian CEOs may 
consider initiating outsourcing of a business 
process or function in the next 12 months.Championing the cause of operational 
efficiencies across the organisation 
• HR should drive a more efficient (not necessarily 
leaner) structure across the organization. 
• This may mean better post-merger integration  
and alignment of acquired entities.
• Automation and outsourcing of processes may 
need to be utilised more aggressively to free up 
resources for supporting the growth agenda.
Effectiveness of the HR function
• In addition to addressing overall organisation 
productivity issues, the overall effectiveness and 
efficiency of the HR function may come into focus.
• HR will need to look at making people processes 
more efficient and customer-friendly. 
• Tracking of tangible benefits being delivered by 
the HR function may be high on senior leaders 
priority list.
• Evaluation of IT enablement of HR service 
offerings, and scope to outsource HR processes or 
functions need to be explored.  Implication for HR leaders
Being operationally efficient vs being 
capable to handle VUCA? Are we 
expecting too much from our managers?
What will be the new balance between 
generalists and specialists?1
How will the structure of HR teams change 
to make themselves more efficient? 2
3Points to ponder CEOs speak…
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     9  Managing the environment
“ Any corporation is only sustainable as long as all 
stakeholders are happy. The community around you is 
a major stakeholder which can disrupt your operation 
if it is not happy.” 
A M Naik
Executive Chairman, Larsen & Toubro Ltd
While…
• Eighty-six per cent of Indian CEOs feel that 
employees including trade unions have a 
significant impact on their business strategy 
and 94% would like to increase their 
engagement with them.
• Close to two-third see media, local 
communities and social media users having 
a somewhat or significant influence on the 
company’s strategy.
At the same time…
• Seventy-five per cent feel that major social 
unrest in the country can have a potential 
negative impact on the business.CEOs speak…Managing the environment 
• Potential unionisation threats and social unrest 
driven by local communities, media, etc. may 
bring proactive employee relations into focus. 
• Simultaneously employer branding in social  
media platforms and local communities may  
gain prominence.
• Both of these may require HR professionals  
to relearn new skills so as to deliver value to  
the business.  Implication for HR leaders
CEOs speak…
What are the HR capabilities of  
the future? 
Social media, technology savvy or 
proactive employee relations – how 
proficient are we on these today? 
Do we have a development roadmap for  
the future?
Will HR leaders need to demonstrate 
greater lateral leadership in the future?1
2
3
4Points to ponder 
Conclusion
The role of HR is set to become complex. It will have to meet the (often conflicting) expectations of various stakeholders.  
Its success will depend on its ability to find and implement innovative solutions to the talent puzzle while at the same time 
managing costs, productivity and efficiency. It must also strike the right balance between its role as employee advocate 
and that of business partner.  Are you ready for the challenge?
Managing in uncertain times: HR at crossroads     10  We conducted 1,330 interviews with CEOs in 68 countries 
between 5 September and 4 December, 2012. By region, 
449 interviews were conducted in Asia Pacific, 312 in 
western Europe, 227 in North America, 165 in Latin 
America, 95 in central and eastern Europe, 50 in Africa 
and 32 in Middle East. In India, 73 CEOs were covered. 
The interviews were spread across a range of industries. 
To better appreciate CEOs’ perspectives for 2013, we also 
conducted in-depth interviews with 33 CEOs (including 
two CEOs from India) from five continents over the fourth 
quarter of 2012. Their interviews are quoted in this report 
and more extensive extracts can be found on our website  
at www.pwc.com/ceosurvey , you can explore responses  
by sector and location. About the 16th Annual PwC Global CEO Survey
1,330 
CEOs in 68 countries
73
CEOs in India
33
In-depth interviews 
with CEOs 
2
In-depth interviews 
with Indian CEOs
ContactsAbout People and Change Advisory About PwC
Padmaja Alaganandan
Executive Director
+91 080 40794001
padmaja.alaganandan@in.pwc.com
Tathagata Basu
Principal Consultant 
+91 99 2003 8359
tathagata.basu@in.pwc.comPwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with 
more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please 
see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
With a pan-India network, we assist clients in improving the performance of all aspects of their human resource function 
such as performance management system, organisational design, job evaluation and banding, rewards, competencies, 
vision and values, culture, employee engagement, change, talent management and development and function 
diagnostics. We have worked extensively with clients across different sectors, industries and borders.
If you will like to discuss any of the issues raised in ‘Managing in Uncertain Times: HR at Crossroads’, please speak to 
your usual PwC contact or any of the contacts listed below: 
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 507- May 2013 The 16th annual CEO survey.indd  
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
