Title: pwc_changing-dynamics-final-copy-feb-4-2013
Date Published: 2013-02-04 12:40:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_changing-dynamics-final-copy-feb-4-2013.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Indian aviation: 
Spreading its wings 
www.pwc.in
Aero India, February 2013  
Foreword  p2/Opportunities and challenges p6/Tax and regulatory framework p22/
Building a domestic aerospace industrial base p28

PwC2The year 2012 marked a decade of full-fledged entry of the private 
sector in defence production with 100% equity and 26% foreign direct investment.  The decade also witnessed India emerge as one of the most attractive defence markets and an even more lucrative aerospace market in the world with a steady increase in the Ministry of Defence’s budget for modernisation of the armed forces.  Besides, the size of the defence market in India, the government’s defence budget, the 30% offset clause, the Defence Production Policy espousing indigenisation and self-reliance—these avenues seem promising for the private defence industry as well. 
However, the lack of level playing field for the private sector vis-a-
vis the DPSUs and the foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) continue to be a dampener on the enthusiasm and efforts of the private sector to be able to contribute meaningfully to the Indian growth story.   India at this juncture is uniquely equipped to create a vibrant defence manufacturing base in the country with the right utilisation of its budget and modernisation spree. Yet we are losing the battle even before it has started. 
The Defence Offset Policy announced last year lists fostering 
development of internationally competitive enterprises, augmenting capacity for research, design and development related to defence products and services and encouraging development of synergistic sectors such as civil aerospace and internal security. FICCI has welcomed the intent of these objectives creating a manufacturing base and augmenting R&D related to defence products and services. However, it will be desirable to have an offset policy which has creating capability and value addition as its corner-stones. 
One cannot over emphasise the importance of self-reliance in 
defence production in the strategic interest of the nation. Here it is also coupled with the fact that the defence and aerospace industry can act as a force multiplier for the economy given India’s capability in frugal engineering together with jobs and export opportunities like it has happened in the auto and IT sector.  Also, since defence is a tiered industry, the MSME sector can get a huge impetus through a strong defence industry set up. This will also build national defence capability followed with integration of the Indian industry in the global supply chain of spares and sub-systems followed by platform integration. In due course, India can emerge as an outsourcing hub for global defence players. This sums up our vision for the defence and aerospace manufacturing in India, which the FICCI Defence Committee has been taking forward with the Ministry of Defence
We would like to thank our knowledge partners - PwC for their 
support and hard work in making this report.
Dr A Didar SinghSecretary General FICCIForeword

Spreading its wings Indian aviation3In the last decade, India initiated a modernisation and acquisition 
programme for its defence forces. To utilise the huge acquisition budget and to build a domestic industrial base, the government made radical policy changes, allowing private and domestic investment in the defence sector and moving from depending upon a single country for the supply of equipment to global bidding. The offset policy was launched in 2005 to encourage investments in the nascent domestic industry. Based on the learning and feedback from domestic and foreign participants, the Defence Procurement Policy (DPP) and offset policies have been revised several times. These changes reflect the government’s commitment to put in place a transparent and proactive policy regime. 
Over the last 10 years, a number of big-ticket acquisitions have 
taken place and offset proposals exceeding 4 billion USD have been approved. To assess the growth and development that have taken place in the past four years (since our first such study), PwC conducted a review of the sector. To deal with limited company data available in the public domain, we relied on interviews and our insights derived from advising a large number of clients and anecdotal evidence.
Defence and aerospace companies face a new intensity as a result 
of the economic slowdown and consequent defence spending cuts, particularly in the US and Europe where governments have started cutting, re-profiling and reducing programmes and platforms. Though the US is still the largest military spender, the Asia-Pacific region with China, Japan and India, leads the race in arms purchase, with a major chunk of these budgets going into the military aviation sector.
The Indian Air Force (IAF) has inducted a wide range of new 
platforms and equipment with many more purchases in the pipeline. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has dominated the sector and along with other defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), it has supported the private sector in enhancing their capabilities through outsourcing and vendor development. The industry is still at a nascent stage of evolution. However, the good news is that the results of the liberalisation and proactive policies in the last decade, for example through the  ‘make’ programme and the defence offset policy, are beginning to bear fruit as several large domestic private sector groups such as Tata and L&T and a large number of smaller companies have entered this sector. The defence offset policy is expected to catalyse this process. Most of the leading global OEMs from the US and Europe have also established their presence in India including through joint ventures with Indian companies.Foreword
PwC4Regulatory regime
The government has tried to encourage private and foreign 
investment in both civil and military aviation through several proactive policies. Yet there is much to be done. The 26% cap on foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence needs to be reviewed as this policy has failed to attract foreign investment. The country has received a paltry 4 million USD in the 10 years since FDI has been allowed in the defence sector as compared to over 180 billion USD in the entire economy. There is no clear definition of defence equipment delaying receiving licences for manufacture as well as exports and imports. There are inconsistencies among the various policies and their interpretation by different arms of the government which creates uncertainty and discourages investment. 
The complex and multi-tiered tax structure in India makes domestic 
manufacturing uncompetitive. The defence sector has an inverted duty structure as imports of final equipment by the Defence Ministry are duty-free but component and sub-assembly imports and domestic value-add by the private sector is taxed.
Spreading its wings Indian aviation5The way forward
The Indian aerospace and defence (A&D) market is among 
the most attractive globally and the government is keen on promoting investments. Yet, doing business in India remains a challenge both from demand as well as supply perspectives. In the military sector, there exists uncertainty related to the regulatory regime and an unpredictable demand with frequent cancellation of tenders. The civil sector, where private airlines have now created a large and growing market, is still struggling with issues of profitability. The expansion of the aviation industry into the fabric of the country through the creation of smaller airports is still in its early stages, while the MRO industry where India could take a lead, is suffering from a lack of competitiveness relative to Singapore, Dubai and Sri Lanka. Reducing the time lag for general aviation aircraft clearances, lack of tax incentives, lack of manufacturing capabilities and skill sets, are some of the other challenges which the industry needs to deal with.
As the industry matures, more can be done through 
policy-making and streamlining regulations to allow the industry to accelerate its growth. Our recommendations for overcoming these challenges and key learning from market leaders are as follows:
• The medium and long-term perspective plans for the 
military, homeland security and aviation sectors should be shared with the industry in a transparent manner, without compromising national security to provide the industry information and confidence to invest in a production process that is measured in decades rather than years. 
• Recognise that exports are essential for developing competitiveness, removing lumpiness of domestic orders and building global quality and competitiveness. At present, there are many grey areas around the licensing requirements due to poor definition of defence items.
• A key argument against raising the FDI limit in the defence sector is national security. Creating a security policy will free the debate on FDI limits of this bogey. There is abundant international experience to learn from.
• We need to bring clarity on the definition of defence equipment.• We need to create MSME clusters with high quality infrastructure and common facilities for building capabilities.  
• It is essential to increase the FDI limit, align policies and rationalise the tax structure to create synergies and encourage foreign and domestic investments.
• The procurement process and governance structure for programmes have to evolve and lessons from more developed markets such as the US and UK will help streamline these processes and reduce delays and cancellations.
• The high cost of capital, particularly for MSMEs needs to be addressed.
Our interviews with industry leaders bring out the following lessons for those who are looking to enter and grow in the industry:
• Build capabilities and help key stakeholders, including 
the government
• Realise that you are here for the long haul
• Aim to be part of a global supply chain
• Consider acquisition and partnering to benefit from proven technology,
• Engineering design and IT areas are good entry points
We would like to thank our clients, senior officials in the government, DPSUs and other stakeholders for their valuable insights. We are also grateful to FICCI for inviting us to be their knowledge partner. We trust that you will find this report useful and look forward to your valuable feedback.
Dhiraj MathurLeader, Aerospace and Defence PracticePricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd

PwC6Opportunities and 
challenges
The US has planned to reduce its defence 
expenditure by approximately 500 billion USD for the next 10 years. The threat of 
sequestration still looms until the March 
2013 deadline, pushing the regular budget for 2014 (usually completed by early February)as far as April. In Europe, defence ministries have responded to 
budget cuts by cutting, re-profiling and 
reducing programmes and platforms. The focus has been towards capability and cost-sharing between nations. The 
outlook towards defence spending 
is clouded and the industry needs to respond to the challenge by improving productivity and by cutting costs. 
Trends in developed nations have not 
deterred defence spending in the Asia-Pacific region where China, Japan and 
India lead the race in arms purchase, 
with a major chunk of these budgets going in the military aviation sector. The Chinese defence spending increased by 11% in 2012 to reach 106 billion USD. 
According to the US Department of 
Defence’s 2012 report on Military Power of the People’s Republic of China, total defence related spending in 2011-12 was in the range of 120 billion to 180 billion 
USD. The Indian Union Budget 2012-13 
outlays 40.44 billion USD for defence spending, an increase of 17.63% over the previous year.Military aviation
The global security scenario over the last decade has maintained the 
momentum for sustained high defence spending worldwide. Only recently, as a result of the economic slowdown, has defence spending 
come under closer scrutiny. The defence expenditure of developed 
economies pegged at 1,738 billion USD in 2011 shows a flat growth over the 2010 spend. 
Indian military aviation 
market
Massive modernisation and acquisition 
programme
Source: PwC analysis
India ranks among the top 10 countries 
in the world in terms of military expenditure and is one of the largest 
importers of conventional defence 
equipment as it strives to modernise its forces and replace obsolete equipment. The air force accounts for the largest share of the defence capital budget 
—5.54 billion USD in FY 2012-13, which 
represents approximately 15% of the total defence allocation. India’s shopping cart 
Source: SIPRI arms transfer databaseIndia’s defence budget 
(Figures in billion USD)2011
2010
2009Revenue
Capital
Spreading its wings Indian aviation7The IAF has completed the first phase 
of its 15-year modernisation plan that began in 2006. It was divided in the 
three Five Year Plans namely, the 11
th, 
12th and 13th to be completed by 2022. In 
the previous plans, the IAF procurements 
were around 27.43 billion USD and it 
is envisaged that it will procure assets 
worth more than 38 billion USD over the next two plan periods, thereby completing approximately 75% of its modernisation programme by 2022. In 
FY 2012 -13, a sum of 5,229 million USD 
has been allocated in the defence budget for purchase of helicopters, aircraft  and major aero assemblies for the Indian 
Army, Navy and Air Force, under the 
head ‘aircraft and aero engines’. This has been receiving large proportions of the defence budget allocation and has grown from 2,780 million USD in 
FY 2009-10 to 5,229 million USD in FY 
2012-13, thereby representing a CAGR of approx 28%. This amount is expected to increase to approximately 13,000 million USD by 2017, thus, achieving a CAGR 
of 20% from 2013 to 2017. However, 
when accounting for India’s inflation rate, the real growth in procurement under this head is expected to be 8,000 million USD. In addition to hi-tech 
fighters, the IAF is completely revamping 
its transport and surveillance fleet to achieve larger reach within the decade. The defence services are poised to induct 
over 800 rotary wing aircraft in the 
coming decade, some of them being built indigenously.India’s big-ticket procurements
Category Name Quantity Induction likely from
Combat 
aircraftMedium multi role combat aircraft (MMRCA) 126 2016
Fifth generation fighter aircraft (FGFA) 214 2019
Advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) 250 2020
Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA) 264 2013
MIG 29K 29 2013
 Sukhoi 30 Mk 1 fighters 42 2014
Transport 
aircraftMulti role transport aircraft (MTA) 45 2022
C17 Globemaster 10 Induction commenced
Medium lift transport aircraft 56 2020
Trainer 
aircraftPC -7 Pilatus trainer 75+ 75 2014
Hawk advanced jet trainer (AJT) 20 2016
Multi role tanker transport (MRTT) 6 2015
SpecialistP-8I Poseidon 12 (8+4) Induction commenced
Airborne warning and control systems AWACS 2 2018
Source: Media reports and PwC analysis
India’s rotary wing aircraft procurement
Type of helicopter Quantity To be procured from
Mi-17 V-5 139 Russia
Heavy lift helicopters 15 CH-47 Chinook (most likely)
Medium attack helicopters 22 AH-64 Apache (likely)
Utility twin-engine helicopters 159 HAL (Dhruv Mk III)
Naval twin-engine helicopters 50 Global market
Naval medium and multi-role 91 Global market
Weaponised utility helicopter 76 HAL (Rudra) 
Light combat helicopter 179 HAL (LCH) 
Light utility helicopters  197 Global market
Light utility helicopters 187 HAL
Source: Business Standard 
 2011
20102009

PwC8Evolution of the industry
Prior to 2001, the aerospace and defence 
industry was exclusively reserved for DPSUs which have grown tremendously, 
in part because of the protection, 
but in large measure by developing and acquiring new technologies and by entering into the manufacture of indigenous aircraft. In 2001, the 
government allowed 100% domestic 
private investment in the defence sector upon obtaining an industrial licence and FDI of up to 26% with conditions.
The introduction of the Defence 
Offset Policy in 2005, with its several 
revisions (the last in 2012), has provided 
significant opportunities for Indian companies. New players are aggressively building capabilities and their attractiveness for potential Tier I and Tier 
II supplier partnerships. Leading OEM’s 
have not only established their presence but are actively starting to participate in programmes of the Indian government and even forming joint ventures with 
Indian companies.Select aerospace majors in India 
EADS •	Leading supplier to Indian commercial aviation sector (market share of 70% for Airbus 
and 95% for ATR)
•	Products such as the C-295 transport aircraft and the A330 MRTT in-flight refuelling aircraft shortlisted in several programmes of the Ministry of Defence (MoD)
•	MBDA, an EADS affiliated company, has supplied air-to-air and air-to-surface missiles to the Indian Air Force and Navy
Boeing •	Government of India purchased eight Boeing P-8I long-range maritime reconnaissance 
and anti-submarine aircraft in Jan 2009
•	MOD signed an agreement with the US government to acquire 10 Boeing C-17 
Globemaster III airlifters in June 2011 (largest defence contract signed by the Indian 
government with the US)
•	On the verge of winning contracts for AH-64D Apache attack helicopters and CH-47F Chinook heavy-lift helicopters
•	Dynamatic Technologies and Tata Advanced Materials Limited (TAML) have  delivered P-8I components
Eurocopter •	Led the market with 65% of new aircraft deliveries in 2011
•	Is expanding its support and services network in major cities to provide proximity 
services to customers across India
Lockheed 
Martin•	C-130J Super Hercules (first major military contract between the US and India in more than 40 years) is their largest programme in India
•	Formed a joint venture with Tata Advanced Systems, Tata Lockheed Martin  Aero-structures, to manufacture airframe components for the C-130J
Finmeccanica •	Significant industrial presence in India, is represented by the Ansaldo STS subsidiary in 
Bangalore (established in 1996), supplies signaling automation and control systems to 
South Asian markets
•	Over the last five years, have received on an average 250 million euros of orders per year from India. Forecast for 2010-2014 is about 500 million euros per year
•	Has been establishing partnerships with key public companies (BEL, BHEL, HAL and 
BDL) as well as with recognised private groups
•	AgustaWestland and Tata Sons established a JV for the final assembly in India of the single-engine AW119 helicopter for India as well as worldwide markets
Source: Company websitesTata Power SED
Tata Power’s Strategic Electronics Division (Tata Power 
SED) is involved in the indigenous design, development, manufacture, supply and lifecycle support of mission-critical defence systems and a large-scale system integrator for strategic programmes. 
Since 1974, Tata Power SED has partnered with the 
MoD, the armed forces and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in the development and 
supply of state-of-the-art systems. 
Tata Power SED has emerged as an established prime 
contractor by winning the modernisation of air field infrastructure (MAFI) programme. 
Rahul Chaudhry, CEO, Tata Power SED: “There are a number of reasons for the poor 
progress made towards indigenisation. Some of them are rooted in the policy structure–
both in terms of inconsistencies as well as a lack of a pro-active approach to involve the private sector. Other reasons, such as the inverted duty structure where imports are at zero duty and component, sub-assemblies and domestic value-add is taxed makes defence procurement an import-friendly regime. Further, the government of India gives 
exchange rate variation on the entire import content (directly or through DPSUs) but 
does not extend the same level playing field to the Indian private sector despite clear direction to do so in the DPP. In the last six years, the   ‘real’ indigenous content, i.e. the true value of indigenisation versus imports has progressively deteriorated from 45 to 
36% due to a lack of a review mechanism at the Department of Defence Production and 
at the Defence Minister’s level. Indigenisation of defence production and creation of jobs in India has been a recurring theme in seminars but has never been implemented on the ground. With the Planning Commission and National Manufacturing Policy now clearly targeting indigenous defence production as an integral part of the creation of 
manufacturing jobs in India in the 12
th  Five Year Plan, hopefully the intent of the Defence 
Production Policy (DPP) will now see on-ground implementation”  Efforts to indigenise
The government has initiated a process 
of transformation in the military aviation sector through two key decisions. First, 
it diversified its sources of purchase 
of aircraft beyond USSR or Russia to OEMs from across the world through a transparent global bidding process. The Defence Ministry released its first 
DPP in 2002 that laid down detailed 
guidelines for all procurement. In 2005, it introduced a Defence Offset Policy as a part of the DPP. Second, the government 
opened up the manufacturing of defence 
equipment to domestic and foreign companies to build a domestic industrial base in the aerospace and defence sector and thereby reduce dependence 
on imports. Progressive revisions in the 
DPP clearly highlight the gradual shift in focus towards indigenisation as the government attempts to utilise Indian industry’s cost advantages, availability of 
a talent base, manufacturing capabilities 
and IT competitiveness. 
Spreading its wings Indian aviation9The global recession and significant 
margin pressures have forced OEMs and Tier I suppliers to undertake 
major restructuring and cost-cutting 
exercises. In such a scenario, emerging economies are in a position to provide significant cost benefits. Hence, some defence manufacturing related work 
is being increasingly outsourced to 
these economies. Efforts by domestic suppliers to move up the value chain is encouraging foreign companies to 
outsource manufacturing related work, 
rather than outsource only components and low-value IT assignments. Auto companies such as TVS-Sundaram Clayton, RICO and Mahindra and 
Mahindra (M&M) are also foraying 
into the aerospace sector in the field of manufacturing mechanical, electrical, electronics and composites. Select Indian aerospace companies
Hindustan 
Aeronautics 
Limited (HAL)•	Pursuing strategic business alliances through partnership and joint ventures with OEMs 
to gain access to technology and the global market 
•	Plans to create new divisions and facilities as strategic business units (SBUs) for the implementation of new programmes such as Medium Multirole Combat Aircraft 
(MMRCA), FGFA and Light Utility Helicopter or Medium Lift Helicopters
•	Manufactured 12 types of aircraft with in-house R&D and 14 under licence 
•	Till recently, manufactured over 3,550 aircraft, 3,600 engines and overhauled over 
8,150 aircraft and 27,300 engines
•	Current projects include the following:
 -Dhruv (Advanced Light Helicopter-ALH)
 -Tejas LCA
 -Intermediate Jet Trainer (IJT)
 -Various military and civil upgrades
Bharat Elec-
tronics
Limited (BEL)•	Delivered components for the following Boeing products:
 -Sensor technology for the P-8I
 -Cockpit sub-assembly for Super Hornets 
 -Cockpit sub-assembly for Growlers
•	Part of the global supply chain
DynamaticTechnologies•	Known for development of complex aero structures such as wing, rear fuselage, aile-rons flaps, fins, slats, stabilisers, canards and air brakes
•	Largest infrastructure in the Indian private sector for manufacture of exacting air frame structures and precision aerospace components 
•	Partner closely with agencies such as the MoD, HAL and other defence establishments on key projects
Samtel Avionics 
and Defence 
Systems•	Key Indian player in high-technology products for avionics and military applications in both domestic and international markets
•	Moving towards its goal of becoming India’s first complete avionics firm in the private domain
•	 Offers a repertoire of state-of-the-art avionic displays and advanced systems to meet customised requirements of the aerospace industry
•	JV with Thales of France
Larsen  and Toubro(L&T)•	Provide design, manufacture and supply of components, subsystems and systems for aerospace applications
•	Their Precision manufacturing facilities are geared to meet the exacting demands of 
aerospace manufacture
•	Have the capability to achieve high accuracy levels in the manufacture of systems 
and subsystems of satellites and launch vehicles in metals and advanced composites through their state-of-the-art facilities
Tata Advance 
Systems Lim-
ited (TASL)•	Fully-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons 
•	Synergising capabilities across the group, offers design-to-manufacture and build-to-print solutions to Indian and global aerospace customers
•	Established several joint venture companies, with Lockheed Martin, Sikorsky, ELTA Systems and AGT International
Source: Company websites Thales
Thales has joint venture agreements with BEL and 
Samtel, besides having a software development company in Chennai for its global customers. 
Presently, India accounts for only 1.5% of the total global 
defence business. However, the company is expanding rapidly in the transport segment with a target of at least 50% of Indian revenue from the transport segment.
Thales has a major stake in India with the ongoing 
upgradation of the Mirage fleet in France, the share of 
electronics in the manufacture of Scorpene submarines and the forthcoming MMRCA project.Eric Lenseigne, Country Head and Managing Director, 
Thales India: “Almost 90% of the company’s 260 million USD business in India comes from the defence sector. We expect the military aviation market in India to sustain double-digit growth through the decade and we are confident that the commercial aviation market in India, where Thales has a major share of in-flight systems and avionics, is going to consolidate and bounce back soon. Thales will play a major role in future acquisitions in the domain of sensors, surveillance and air defence equipment. Presently, almost every combat aircraft in India has a bit of Thales in it.”
PwC 10Challenges in the military aviation sector and the way 
forward
The aerospace industry continues to face the following key challenges:
Access to technology: Availability and access to cutting-edge technology is the most 
critical challenge faced by Indian companies. The country needs to keep pace with the increasingly high use of technology across the design lifecycle. 
Access to funding and high interest rates: The aerospace business is highly capital-
intensive. In the initial phase, capital needs to be injected continuously for longer periods without quick returns. Lending rates have been very high over the last three 
to four years. 
Training and capability building: Companies have to invest significantly in in-house 
training programmes lasting eight to 10 months to make fresh recruits ready with the 
right kind of skills to hit the shop floor.   
Tax and regulatory framework: There is an urgent need to rationalise the inverted 
tax structure and regulatory policies to create a level playing field and facilitate domestic and foreign investment  
Availability of raw material: There has been a significant shift in the type of raw 
materials that are being used in airframe structures. Composites are extensively used and there is limited domestic availability and manufacturing capability.
Multiple platforms and poor vendor development: Unlike the navy, the air force 
has over 45 platforms in use, making it extremely difficult to build and grow a strong vendor base as low volumes and diverse technologies make it difficult for private 
Indian companies to invest in equipment and capability. 
Rockwell Collins
Rockwell Collins provides 
communication solutions for the aerospace and defence market. The company’s solution portfolio includes audio management and controls, communication radios, modems, networks, flight information solutions, data links and surveillance. 
Rockwell Collins has invested close 
to 40 million USD in its design and research centre in Hyderabad which currently employs 500 engineers and has aggressive plans in India. It is collaborating with HCL Technologies Ltd as an offshoring partner for its engineering works and with ECIL for ECCM modules. The company has also 
tied up with Tata Power SED to bid for 
IAF’s software defined radios contract. 
Rockwell Collins seeks to boost its 
sales in the Asia Pacific and Latin America in order to offset curbs in US military spending.Ram Prasad, Managing Director, Rockwell 
Collins: “We foresee market potential worth 800 million USD in the defence communication and avionics space in the next five years. We are partnering 
with both DPSUs as well as small and big 
private sector players. However, the long 
acquisition cycles and delayed decision-making remains a challenge in the defence 
sector in India. We expect the market for 
Rockwell Collins’ products and services in the commercial aircraft segment to be around 200 million USD. We will participate in a number of ‘make’ projects such as TCS, BMS, FINSAS and FICV. 
Commercial aviation
There is a strong correlation between 
the gross domestic product (GDP) and the aviation industry. As a country’s per 
capita GDP grows, so does its residents’ 
desire and ability to afford travel, and this desire in turn fuels the demand for aircraft. It is now well-acknowledged that economies outside North America and 
Europe are expected to lead the world in 
GDP growth. By 2030, more than 50% of the top 10 economies are expected to be outside the Western Europe and US 
region. Countries of Asia-Pacific, Latin 
America and Russia, where long-term GDP growth is forecast above average are expected to have a profound impact on commercial aviation. 
Global GDP expressed in terms of PPP
Rank in 2011 Country GDP billion  
USD(2011)Projected rank in 
2030Country Projected GDP billion 
USD (2030)
1 US 15094 1 China 30634
2 China 11347 2 US 23376
3 India 4531 3 India 13716
4 Japan 4381 4 Japan 5842
5 Germany 3221 5 Russia 5308
6 Russia 3031 6 Brazil 4685
7 Brazil 2305 7 Germany 4118
8 France 2303 8 Mexico 3662
9 UK 2287 9 UK 3499
10 Italy 1979 10 France 3427
Source: World in 2050,  PwC reportGlobally, airline revenues have increased throughout the period of economic recovery, from 476 billion USD in 2009 
to 597 billion USD in 2011, representing 
a 9.3%
2  year-on-year increase. In terms 
of the total net profits too, airlines have recovered from a net loss of ~26 billion 
USD in 2008 to a net profit of ~7.9
3 
billion USD in 2011. The International 
Air Transport Association’s (IATA) 
Director General Tony Tyler was recently 
quoted in a press report, “The industry has reshaped itself to cope by investing in new fleets, adopting more efficient processes, carefully managing capacity 
and consolidating.” IATA has increased 
its profits forecast for global airlines in 2012 to over 4 billion USD. From an Indian perspective, a global recovery will 
not only encourage foreign interest but 
also help in strengthening alliances and joint business agreements that might have been put on hold earlier owing to the industry downturn. 
1 Aviation Benefits Beyond Borders report by Air Transport Action Group (ATAG)
2 Bombardier commercial aircraft market forecast 2012-2031
3 IATA annual review 2012 Global business and tourism rely heavily 
on air transport. It facilitates world trade and helps to increase access 
to international markets and allows 
globalisation of production. According to a recent report by the Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), the total value of goods transported by air represents 
35%
1 of the world trade. With increasing 
liberalisation across the world in 
emerging economies, trade is expected 
to increase at an accelerated rate 
with India, China and other emerging countries giving further boost to the commercial aviation sector in these countries.
Spreading its wings Indian aviation 11

PwC12Total net profits and losses posted by airlines 
globally
Source: IATA annual review 2012
Indian commercial aviation 
sector
The Indian aviation sector has continued 
to experience high passenger growth over the last few years. 
Growing passenger numbers in domestic 
market
Source: DGCA, PwC analysis
Between 2009 and 2011, the total 
domestic passenger traffic in India has grown at a CAGR of over 17% and if this growth were to continue, India is 
estimated to be among the top three 
aviation markets in the world by 2020. Freight traffic is expected to increase six-fold over the next decade. This is consistent with the emergence of low-
cost carriers such as Indigo, Go Air and 
SpiceJet, besides freight players such as Blue Dart and Deccan Express Logistics which has provided an impetus to air and freight traffic. Indian carriers have placed 
orders for an additional 436 aircraft 
to cater to increasing domestic and international travel demand. However, due to lack of proper infrastructure and training facilities, other than growth in 
terms of traffic, aircraft and MRO, there 
is little scope for creating a supply chain in India.Year-wise break-up of total number of 
domestic passengers
 
Source: DGCA, PwC analysis
Currently, six domestic carriers operate 
in the Indian aviation space with a total fleet of over 369 aircraft
4. 
Domestic carriers’ market share as of Nov 
2012
Source: DGCA, PwC analysis
Note:  The market share of Kingfisher 
Airlines as per November 2012 is depicted 
as zero per DCGA statistics owing to the 
suspension of its licence by the DGCA. Challenges in the sector
With the exception of Indigo, all major 
airlines have posted losses on a consistent basis over the last few years. 
Consistent losses posted by major carriers 
Source: Annual reports of companies, media reports, 
PwC analysis
4 DGCA website
Spreading its wings Indian aviation13The airline industry is faced with 
numerous challenges which can be broadly classified into three heads:
Global challenges: 
Volatility in fuel prices has been the foremost challenge for airlines. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) represents the single 
largest expense for airlines, on an 
average amounting to about 34% of the operating costs
5. IATA estimates that a 
1 USD increase in the average price of a barrel requires the industry to recover 
an additional 1.6 billion USD in revenue. 
From an average price of 80 USD a barrel in 2010, oil prices rose by 20 USD per barrel in 2011 and by another 10 to 12 USD by the end of 2012. The airline 
industry’s fuel bill rose to 177 billion 
USD in 2011. The situation has been exacerbated by the steep depreciation of the rupee versus the US dollar (~18.7% 
depreciation in FY11, although partly 
recovered in FY12) adding further burden on the Indian airlines.
.National policy related 
challenges:
India has among the highest tax on 
ATF imposed by state governments (3 to 30%). This along with the social 
obligation to fly uneconomic routes deals 
a double whammy on airlines. The high interest rate regime has particularly hit airlines with a large debt. Poor infrastructure at the airports resulting 
in delays in take-off and landing, high 
airport charges, interference in pricing, imposing a five-year track record requirement for international flying, 
etc. have all contributed to stifling 
growth, raising costs and making airlines unviable. As per the IATA estimates, many countries including India earned an increased 2.2 billion USD in tax 
revenues in 2011 from the aviation 
sector on account of taxes imposed in various forms. This is ironic considering most domestic airlines made losses that year. The government has in the last six months addressed some of these 
concerns. Airlines have been allowed 
direct imports of ATF, FDI by foreign carriers in domestic airlines has been allowed, but this has been clubbed with FII investment, thereby diluting the 
impact of liberalisation (this is discussed 
in detail in the section on regulatory regime). Airlines have also been allowed to raise working capital through cheaper overseas borrowings.Company-specific challenges: 
Lack of focus, faulty M&A decisions and failed mergers are perhaps the top three reasons for poor performance of Indian 
carriers. In 2007, Kingfisher acquired Air 
Deccan at 550 crore INR, Jet acquired Air Sahara at 1,450 crore INR and the national carriers (Air India and Indian Airlines) were forcefully merged. What 
followed was a sequence of largely 
unsuccessful attempts to integrate the merged entities. Attempts to run two different kinds of services, full-cost 
carriers  as well as low-cost within the 
same airline created serious problems as there were differences in costs, the turnaround time of aircraft and the distribution models. In essence, each  
had a different DNA. 
5 Bombardier commercial aircraft market 
forecast 2012-2031, IATA annual review 2012
6  IATA annual review 2012

PwC14
Future outlook
The Indian market is severely 
underserved with less than 3% of its population utilsing the air route. The 
growing passenger numbers and a 
burgeoning middle class indicate the possibility of healthy passenger load factors (PLFs) for all airlines in the future. Experts believe that the strong 
market growth rate coupled with the 
expansion of infrastructure will help the Indian civil aviation space in rebounding as the Indian economy recovers. The 
latest quarterly results indicate that Spice 
Jet has also made a profit and is the second airlines after Indigo to become profitable. Therefore, this is a good time for global players to enter the Indian 
market to target not just the busy trunk 
routes but also explore the potential of the large unserved market through creating a hub-and-spoke model using smaller aircraft. There are media reports 
of a potential joint venture between Jet 
Airways and a foreign airline. But it may be premature to say that these are green shoots of recovery.
Spreading its wings Indian aviation15General aviation (GA)
The GA market, which includes business 
jets and non-scheduled charter services by fixed and rotor wing aircraft,  
provides services for  diverse operations 
ranging from business, agriculture,  law enforcement, fire and rescue services, to varied government, educational, non-profit and business organisations. 
Servicing and supporting the aircraft 
companies is an entire value chain including fixed base operators (FBOs), maintenance technicians, suppliers and 
service providers. Individuals who use 
GA aircraft realise numerous competitive business advantages, particularly in saving time and improving productivity of key personnel. While business aviation 
has generally stayed under the shadow of 
the scheduled commercial aviation, it is a key segment of the civil aviation sector.  
The industry downturn of 2009-10 had 
a massive impact on the GA aircraft manufacturing industry. The global production of GA aircraft dropped a staggering 52.8% from 4,276 aircraft in 
2007 to 2,020 in 2010. From 2010, the 
aircraft production has been relatively flat year-over-year. Apart from the poor economic environment, the other reasons for the major decrease in sales could 
be that the average price per aircraft 
worldwide almost doubled since 2007 along with the increase in fuel costs. The business jet market has completed four tough years and may have to face another 
difficult year before demand begins to 
improve. However, sustained growth is likely to return from 2014 as the jet fleet replacement cycle begins in USA and Europe. Global business jets delivery (2003-2012)
Source: PwC analysis
Despite a decline in the total business jet deliveries to traditional markets such as the US and Europe, these economies 
remained the world’s largest markets in 
2012.  During this period, the markets grew in Brazil, Mexico and China. In 2013, growth will be seen in the Asia-Pacific and Middle East. While the 
share of global deliveries to emerging 
markets such as China, India, and Russia are likely to grow at a steady rate in the next decade, inadequate airport 
infrastructure, burdensome regulations 
and high tariffs will be barriers restricting growth.Rishi Malhotra, General 
Manager, Bell Helicopters, India:  “India represents a significant growth opportunity for both sales and manufacturing and Bell Helicopter is committed to investing further in India’s growth.  The Indian helicopter sector witnessed a slowdown between 2010 and 2012, but we expect a recovery in 2013. MoD has taken significant steps in improving the procurement process and additional improvements will need to evolve as the processes mature.  Contracting issues, retendering unforeseen programme delays and uncertainties which accompany such programmes are risks that all parties will like to see mitigated.”BS Singh Deo, Managing Director, Bell Helicopters, India: “Another area of great potential is in the helicopter tourism segment besides applications in emergency medical services, fire-fighting and law enforcement. However, in order to witness growth, a friendly regulatory environment is the need of the hour.” 
Bell  
Helicopter
Bell Helicopter holds nearly 40% share in India’s civilian helicopter market.  
Textron, the parent company of Bell Helicopter, 
has opened a new facility at the global technology centre in Bangalore with more than 130 engineers supporting their global operations. It has also signed a MOU with Dynamatic Technologies for manufacturing helicopter cabins. The commercial production for airframe components is scheduled to start in the last quarter of 2013.
PwC16Opportunities in the Indian 
market
The Indian GA market is small and 
under-developed as compared to its global peers. The US has around 5,110 
active airports (the largest in the world) 
and the largest number of GA aircraft approximately more than 255,000. On the other hand, India has only around 150 active airports and approximately 
700 GA aircraft. The movement for GA 
comprised a meager 15% of the total aircraft movement in the country.
However, India is an emerging market 
for private jets with its strong economic growth, expanding business interests 
and increasing number of billionaires. In 
2012, it has the second-largest business jet fleet of 165 (up from 26 in 2005) in the Asia-Pacific region, after China’s 220. 
Business jets fleet operating in India
Source: CAPA, Ascend Worldwide, PwC analysis
The helicopter market in India is equally promising, with growing requirements in tourism, mining, corporate travel, 
air ambulance, homeland security, etc. 
However, this market is contingent on development of heliports in the country 
and standardisation of route operating 
procedures for helicopters. There was an overall slowdown in the Indian helicopter sector from 2010 to 2012, but Bell Helicopter expects a recovery in 2013 
with an annual growth rate of about 10 
to 15 %. This is expected to grow at 12% a year. This is higher than most countries worldwide and in the short-term, second only to China.  India already has about 
270 helicopters operating in various 
parts of the country. A sharp rise in helicopter sales in the Indian market is in the offing because of an increase in 
awareness of the potential uses of rotary 
wing aircraft. The Indian GA market is on the threshold of catapulting itself into the global 
arena. It is expected to grow at 10% 
per annum to cross 4.5 billion USD by FY17.  It is estimated that around 120 business jets, 150 small aircraft and 180 
helicopters will be added by then. As per 
the report by the Working Group on the civil aviation sector, a total investment of over 40 billion USD is expected in GA during the 12
th Five Year Plan period. 
The key drivers of the growth are a growing economy, rising revenues of 
Indian companies, an increasing number 
of high-net-worth individuals, poor connectivity to smaller towns in the hinterland and the businesses need to save time and increase productivity. In 
anticipation of the growing opportunities 
in GA, manufacturers such as Cessna, Gulfstream and Bombardier are either setting up offices in the country or 
expanding their existing businesses.
Challenges and the way forward
In India, the GA sector has been the most 
neglected sector in the civil aviation industry. It has remained in the shadow 
of commercial scheduled aviation which 
has constrained its growth. Despite the imminent opportunities for growth, India does not have any guidelines for the GA sector, let alone a policy. 
The current airport infrastructure in 
India is grossly underdeveloped for 
the GA market. There is also a serious 
shortage of trained manpower to service GA aircraft operations. Besides, there is limited parking and hanger space and 
charter clearances often take up to seven 
days time.   Therefore, a friendly regulatory environment is the need of the hour. The sector urgently requires focussed 
attention, capital investments to create 
dedicated facilities and infrastructure, a separate regulatory and monitoring mechanism and simplification of the complex regulatory and tax procedures 
for importing, owning and operating 
aircraft. 
Airport infrastructure
The rapid development of commercial aviation in the last few decades has created a significant pressure to upgrade 
the country’s airport infrastructure. 
Responding to the challenges of financing these upgrades, the government had opened up this sector for private participation, beginning in 
the 10
th Plan (2002-07). While Delhi 
and Mumbai, the marquee gateway 
airports to country were privatised on 
a brownfield basis through competitive 
bids, Hyderabad and Bangalore became the country’s first greenfield PPP airports.  The private sector investment in the above four airports alone has been over 30,000 crore INR. While 
there have been several roadblocks and 
controversies in the journey towards private participation, it is fair to say that the user experience at these airports have taken a quantum leap, shaping 
expectations for the next generation of 
airports. On its part, the state-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI) has also continued its effort to modernise and redevelop several other airports in the 
country. In the 11
th Plan, the AAI invested 
about 13,000 crore INR, which included 
the modernisation of the Kolkata and 
Chennai airports besides up gradation 
of about 35 non-metro airports in the country. 
Mahindra  
Aerospace
Mahindra Aerospace is delivering aircraft, aero-structure components and aircraft development services. 
The acquisition of the aero 
component manufacturer Aerostaff Australia and Australia-based aircraft manufacturer Gippsaero, gave the company an instant capability in manufacturing of aero components and an entry into the 2-20 seat aircraft segment. The company is setting up a large aero-structure facility in Bangalore. Arvind Mehra, Executive Director and 
CEO, Mahindra Aerospace: “Anything which enhances our infrastructure and connectivity creates a huge impact on overall economic growth. GA is a developing industry in the country and offers a massive opportunity. We will continue to look at various opportunities for growth-organic and inorganic and we are on the verge of announcing a JV with a large Tier I for manufacturing aero-structures. On the global scene, we visualise a slow but steady recovery driven by the aircraft replacement market, considering the large number of aging aircraft in service today.” 
Spreading its wings Indian aviation17Current project pipeline
The Working Group for the 12th Five Year 
Plan on civil aviation has envisaged a 
further investment of about 67,500 crore 
INR in airports over the next five years. 
About 25% of this investment is expected to be made by the AAI (17,500 crore INR) and the remainder of about 50,000 crore INR is expected to come through private 
participation.
1Airport expansion and up gradation projects
Airport Project Timeline
Bangalore Expansion of current terminal, construction 
of second terminalFirst phase of completion in 2013
Mumbai Development of an integrated terminal 2 End of 2013-14
Delhi Second phase of commence First phase of completion 2016
Chennai (AAI) Redevelopment of the airport Early 2013
Kolkata (AAI) Redevelopment of the airport Inaugurated in early 2013
27  non-metro airports Up gradation and modernisation (AAI) 2013
Source: DGCA, PwC analysis
Greenfield airports in various stages of 
completion
Airport Current status
Mopa, Goa Tender process to commence soon
Dabra, Madhya Pradesh Under evaluation
Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra Land acquisition in process
Sindhudurg, Maharashtra Promoters (IRB Infrastructure Developers) have obtained environmental 
clearance
Bijapur, Karnataka MoU signed with Marg Developers in 2010, project currently on hold
Gulbarga, Karnataka Airport construction expected to be complete in 2013
Hassan, Karnataka Project plan being revised
Shimoga, Karnataka Airport construction expected to be complete in 2013
Kannur, Kerala Under feasibility study
Gangtok, Sikkim Punj Lloyd is developing the project and is expected to be completed in 
2013
Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh Under evaluation
Kohima, Nagaland Under evaluation
Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh RFQ for developers 
Karaikal, Tamil Nadu Expected to be operational by 2015
Source: DGCA, PwC analysis

PwC18Investment gap
Despite the strong push towards 
increased investments, recent studies on passenger traffic growth by the 
Centre of Aviation point to the fact that 
current capacities may not be able to meet the demand in the next 10 to 12 years. Airports at most of the metros in the country will have to either 
undergo significant capacity expansions 
or develop second airports. Further, investment in infrastructure has been inequitable and restricted to larger 
metros and cities. The interiors of the 
country have not yet benefited from the economic multiplier effect created by the aviation industry due to limited penetration of air transport in these 
regions.  
The above figure compares the state-
wise population vs the total number of 
flights operating from those regions, thus illustrating the gap in penetration levels. Large states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, forming nearly 60% of India’s population account 
for a much smaller share in terms of 
passenger numbers passing through the state airports. 
On the other hand,  ~80% of the current 
passenger traffic in India is handled by the top 10 major airports in the country, of which five airports have already 
been privatised and three others are in 
phases of redevelopment or developing a secondary airport. The remaining annual passenger traffic of 36 million, outside the top 10 airports is highly fragmented 
and dispersed over 45 different airports 
in the country. 
Therefore, future airport investments 
need to be targeted at areas which form a miniscule proportion of the 
current traffic, but holding significant 
potential for the future. These regions have traditionally been some of India’s most underdeveloped with low industrialisation and disposable incomes. 
Consequently, road and rail have been 
preferred modes of travel for a large section of the population. As these hinterland regions begin to participate in the overall economic development in the 
near future, demand for air travel is also 
expected to grow. State-wise representation of % of total flights vs % of the total population
Source: Ministry of Civil Aviation
Airport-wise passenger traffic 2011-12 (in million)
Note: Airport in Goa is a civil enclave
Source: Airports Authority of India
However, poor quality infrastructure will 
continue to constrain the development of air connectivity, unless addressed 
through timely investments.  The 
challenge for policymakers is to plan for asset creation and upgrades for realising the long-term potential, while keeping in mind the need to make these investments 
commercially sustainable in the short 
and medium terms.
Spreading its wings Indian aviation19Policy recommendations for the 
future
Need for new business models in 
regional airports
Continued private participation will 
be necessary to bridge the investment gap and also to guide the airport 
sector towards greater commercial 
sustainability. However, given the differences in the base demand profiles in various airport types, we see that the next set of airports for development 
will create specific policy issues around 
commercialisation and viability. To incentivise the private developers foray into the regional airport development, a 
paradigm shift has to take place across 
the industry value chain and not just airport development. The following measures need to be taken:
Alternate development and business 
models: Private investors will want the 
government to mitigate their demand risks through alternate concession models. Modular and functional 
development models, similar to several 
low cost airports around the world such as the Dallas Love Field, the London Stansted Airport and the Gold Coast 
Airport, Australia are good examples to 
emulate. Government support through development subsidies may further help to finance these developments. There is also a need to develop innovative 
approaches to commercialisation of these 
assets. Some of the options that are being discussed include packaging of these airports with opportunities for city-side development and township planning 
around the assets, and development of 
airport cities and aerotropolises to cater to industrial development. Catering to 
GA and smaller aircraft operators to 
agglomerate traffic at nearby hubs for onward movement is also an opportunity area for the future.
Incentive to airline operators: In 
addition to developers, airlines have to be encouraged to fly more on these routes. 
Some of the steps that can be taken are  
underwriting seats by the governments that can help airlines meeting some of their cost obligations (this has been done in MP); special sales tax incentives or 
reduction of tax on the ATF (latter done 
in AP) and lower airport charges for aircraft and incentives to operators for including smaller aircraft in their fleet to 
operate in remote locations.Review of the Route Dispersal 
Guidelines: Policymakers should also 
look to overhaul the Route Dispersal 
Guidelines (RDG) policies, in a way that recognises the importance of profitable competition. An affirmative policy that provides the right signals for operating 
on underserved routes through targeted 
subsidies may be required. The type of subsidy and amount should periodically be calibrated to the current level of aviation development in areas that are 
served. 
Need for an active role in evolving a 
hub-and-spoke model: In the long-term, 
close integration of airports in metros and regional nodes will happen if the hub-and-spoke model is successfully 
implemented. For legacy reasons, India 
has lacked a credible hub-and-spoke model for domestic airline operations, leading to lopsided competition in different routes and sectors. While 
creating an environment for judicious 
asset investments and incentivising airline operations are partial solutions, policy measures can also help to bring down demand uncertainties in the 
short-term. Some options that may be 
considered include a more active role in demand allocation at regional nodes, encouragement of code-sharing between airlines and regulations on deployment 
of the right capacity and aircraft choices 
across routes. It is important to ensure that these regulations are dynamic and reviewed at periodic intervals to 
benchmark against achievement of 
targeted goals.
MRO
The global airline MRO business in 2012 slowly emerged from one of its worst periods. According to TeamSAI, 
an aviation consulting firm, the global 
aviation MRO market grew 5.7% in 2012 to reach 49.5 billion USD from 46.9 billion USD in 2011. It is expected to grow by 3.3% per annum over the next 
decade to reach a value of 68 billion USD 
by 2022.
Global civil aviation MRO spend (in billion 
USD)
 
Source: PwC analysis
Increase in MRO spending will be 
driven by increase in fleet size, which is expected to grow at an annual rate 
of 3.2% globally. Other factors that are 
expected to drive MRO revenue are increased aircraft utilisation, deferred replacement of ageing aircraft and higher labour rates. However, the 
MRO revenue growth is expected to 
slowdown. New aircraft technologies such as fuel-efficient aircraft are driving down maintenance costs. Further, the 
MRO business is moving east because of 
rapid growth of fleets in Asia. China has already become the largest MRO market in APAC and is expected to grow 9 to 10% annually to reach 70 billion USD 
by 2015. Along with other major MRO 
markets in the region, the Asian MRO market is expected to reach parity with the Americas and Europe by 2021. 
In the midst of defence budget cuts 
in USA and Europe, the global MRO market is expected to remain stable 
through the next decade as countries will 
look to increase military aircraft MRO spending to maximise the value of legacy aircraft platforms. Lifecycle extension of many older and ageing legacy aircraft 
platforms puts greater emphasis on 
effective maintenance provisions, while new aircraft developments in fighter and transport aircraft will create an 
opportunity for investment in advanced 
technological MRO support. In billion USD
PwC20Indian MRO industry
 India has seen a consistent growth in air 
traffic–both passenger and cargo in the post liberalisation years. This boom in 
air travel combined with higher capacity 
utilisation has led to an increased demand for MRO services. 
The manpower costs in India are lower 
than the leading industrialised nations and range from 35 to 45 USD per hour.  It also has a robust supply of talent, 
available at relatively cheaper rates and a 
large and able population of engineering graduates. India also has over 55 aircraft maintenance training schools to ensure a 
steady supply of suitable talent.
Manpower costs
Source: Centre Oliver Wyman-Lean MRO, Infosys- 
Tenets of MRO strategy
MRO in military aviation
MRO for the Indian Air Force is carried 
out by the maintenance office which is attached to each of the 47 Wings and 
by the nine base repair depots (BRDs). 
The maintenance office carries out A and B level checks while the BRDs are responsible for the C and D level checks. In addition, HAL provides MRO services 
to the IAF through its overhaul, engine 
and helicopter divisions. At present, there is no direct involvement of the 
private industry for maintenance in 
the IAF. However, we believe that the defence sector is now viable for private participation. There are several key drivers for outsourcing defence MRO to 
private players. Some of these include 
the following:
•	The IAF possesses a large mixed 
ageing fleet. 
•	The IAF has in the past been unable to expertly support spares management and provisioning.
•	The current captive MRO facilities are constrained.
•	The IAF is in the midst of a large acquisition.
The recognition of MRO as a qualified avenue to discharge offset obligations has seen a renewed interest by OEMs 
to partner with existing private MRO 
players. Challenges in the Indian MRO 
sector
Tax and regulatory environment
•	In the last budget, the government 
made relaxations that addressed some longstanding bottlenecks for the growth of the industry. Customs 
duty was waived on parts imported for 
MRO of aircraft, subject to conditions. In other cases, the importer needs to pay full customs duty (upto 28.85%) at the time of import and applicable 
value-added tax (VAT) (upto 15% 
based on the state VAT rate) on its subsequent sale in India. Further, there may be additional levies in the 
form of entry tax or octroi in some 
states and municipalities.
•	The service tax regime in India has undergone a paradigm shift effective 1 July 2012. Presently, all services except those mentioned under the negative list or otherwise exempt from 
payment of service tax are leviable 
to service tax at 12.36%. Services in 
the nature of MRO have neither been 
covered under the negative list nor are exempt from service tax. They are therefore chargeable to service tax at 
12.36%. In addition, in terms of the 
Place of Provision of Supply Rules, 2012, specified parameters need to be fulfilled for such services to qualify as export of services and hence not be 
charged to service tax. Thus, servicing 
an aircraft in India entails a service tax of 12.36%. This burden is reduced to the extent of service tax credit admissible to MRO customers.
The MRO industry believes that the tax regime in India is the main factor holding 
back its growth.Land allotment processes
Shortage of land at India’s major airports 
and the lack of clarity in land allotment are issues that continue to deter potential 
MRO players. This issue has been 
addressed by reserving land for MRO at new airports such as the Bangalore International Airport and the Hyderabad International Airport.
The way forward
K V Krishnan, VP Engineering of Airworks believes that while India has the ability to excel in MRO, regulations, 
taxes and lack of middle management 
skills are the biggest hurdles holding back the industry. Global defence companies are looking for Indian partners with strong local presence. 
Airline operators are simplifying their 
supply chain and optimising on costs by 
tying up with fewer MRO providers that 
can provide a host of integrated services. These services include the traditional MRO checks such as engine and airframe 
maintenance and also newer services 
such as third-party aircraft remarketing, lease management and technical and general consultancy services.
There is an urgent need to recognise 
the MRO sector as a separate industry and give it a strong impetus. Companies 
such as Airworks Engineering have done 
well, given the above challenges but the government needs to take further proactive measures to encourage the growth of MRO. Including MRO as an 
avenue to discharge offsets, exemption of 
basic customs duty on certain parts such as spares, retreaded tires, etc. are steps in the right direction. 
Spreading its wings Indian aviation21MSMEs
Much of the growth of MSMEs in the 
aerospace sector is expected to take place in lower cost emerging economies such 
as India and China. MSMEs involved 
in the R&D of niche technologies and products may drive high long-term growth within the industry, as they tend to be relatively insulated from offshoring 
and have the potential to grow into large 
suppliers over the long term.
PwC’s Global A&D practice conducted 
an extensive survey consisting of 217 SMEs (companies with less than 500 employees) and 70 large companies 
(companies with at least 500 employees) 
to assess the role, contribution and emerging trends of SMEs in the global aerospace industry. The following trends emerged:   
MSME performance: Out of the 217 
MSMEs, component and equipment 
manufacturers and MRO providers 
exhibited high growth rates in revenue in the last five years. Looking ahead, MSMEs that manufacture standard components in developed countries with a mature aerospace market are most at 
risk of being replaced by SMEs of lower 
cost countries. Additionally, MRO activity will be easier to outsource to lower cost centres emerging in the Asia-Pacific and Latin America. MSMEs vs large companies: Between 2008 and 2011, MSME revenue and employment generally grew at a faster pace than larger companies. This seems reasonable as smaller companies tend 
to be more responsive to the business 
environment and the global economy has been recovering from a financial crisis-induced recession. However, the large 
decline in MSME employment in 2009 
provides a good reminder that smaller companies tend to be less capable of withstanding downturns than their larger industry brethren. 
Global MSME performance 2008 t0 2011
Source: Capital IQ, PwC analysis
Cost pressures and supplier base optimisation: Global OEMs and Tier I suppliers have agreed to lower costs in 
the range of 30 to 40% over the next 15 
to 20 years and therefore, outsourcing more component manufacturing to low-cost countries such as India, China, Mexico, Poland, etc. This trend is likely 
to continue and exert additional stress 
on MSMEs in developed nations even as MSMEs in low-cost nations move up the technology value chain. In addition, 
OEMs are increasingly seeking long-
term partnerships with small groups of Tier I suppliers to develop and integrate better turnkey systems solutions. This has a cascading effect down the value 
chain. Consequently, Tier I suppliers 
are assuming greater responsibility for supply chains and the selection of Tier II and Tier III suppliers. So, as the larger firms move into aerospace system 
integration, MSMEs have little choice 
but to globalise themselves to remain competitive.TAAL
TAAL successfully manufactured 
its own six-seater general aviation aircraft, the P68C, and the 11-seater Vaitor aircraft in collaboration with Partenavia, an Italian aircraft manufacturer in the 90s. TAAL’s Hosur facility consists of 270 acres of land and an airstrip on which the Airbus A 320 and Boeing 737 series of aircraft can land comfortably. S M Kapoor, CEO , TAAL: “There is 
certainly more hope and optimism in the past six to eight months than there was about two years ago. This can be attributed to the positive intent and direction that has been provided by the Defence Offset Guidelines announced by the government in August last year. Even though growth of manufacturing over the last one year has been flat, global aerospace majors are now approaching Indian companies with a much more focussed intent to move forward in various programmes. This will have a positive impact on manufacturing. In anticipation of growth, we have increased our headcount to 450 from about 200 personnel four years ago but business has not grown correspondingly. Therefore, while maintaining our core competencies and strengths, we plan to diversify our product portfolio into non airborne peripheral aerospace businesses such as ground and test equipment, armour and simulators in the near term. However, the momentum in the last few months is encouraging and we are confident of seeing upward movement for the industry in the medium term.” Nash  
Industries
Nash Industries is a new entrant in the aerospace sector. The company has plans to increase its present 2.5% of revenue from aerospace to about 10% in the next five years and foresees availability of skilled talent as its major challenge.Sandeep Wadhwa, Director, Nash Industries: 
“Given the high entry barriers characteristic 
of this sector, besides the long gestational 
periods involved, only companies who have 
the wherewithal and patience should consider entering the sector especially at a time when the global markets have slowed down. Our 
quest to operate in niche technology areas 
along with our diversification strategy in a 
sector with high entry barriers led us to invest in the aerospace sector. We import 100% of the raw materials because they are not 
available in the domestic market. Therefore, 
it would help if the government considers 
minimising import duties which will consequently reduce cost of the end products.” 
PwC22Offsets: Offset requirements of certain 
high-growth countries which include aspects such as transfer of technology 
and multiplier of offset credits for 
collaboration with MSMEs have forced OEMs and other suppliers to source more components from local suppliers. OEMs and top-tier suppliers are increasingly 
engaging with smaller players in these 
countries by establishing partnerships or JVs and in the process, playing a part in the growth of MSMEs in these countries.
Funding and adopting new 
technologies: Availability and access to 
funds continues to remain the biggest 
challenge faced by small players. Programme delays and accelerated ramp-ups in large programmes require financially robust MSMEs 
that can cushion such fluctuations. 
Also, the aerospace sector is in the midst of a tremendous change in the use of advanced materials and newer technologies. This is both a threat 
and an opportunity, and it is forcing 
companies to keep innovating to remain competitive. R&D investments are generally considered high risk because it can take 10 to 15 years for a new aircraft 
to move from conception to test flight to 
sales and a higher portion of aerospace suppliers have to make R&D investments upfront. Private sector sources of 
financing are not always receptive to 
accepting such risks. AAN Engineering 
Industries The 400-million-USD Rico Auto Group has set up a defence and aerospace subsidiary, AAN Engineering Industries, to exclusively cater to its venture in these sectors.  
AAN has established a separate line 
for aerospace manufacturing and has initiated the process of getting the required certifications. The company is in talks with prominent A&D players such as Rockwell Collins and Marshall Aerospace besides DPSUs such as HAL to discuss support options. They have a manufacturing facility in Chennai which can also form part of the aerospace cluster developing in Tamil Nadu. RS Kundi, Director, AAN Engineering: 
Aluminium casting are going to stay in the sector. Our basic strength is in our 30-year experience in aluminium and ferrous castings. Besides having an independent R&D centre and state-of-the-art design, analysis and testing facilities, we are one of the largest machining facilities outside the DPSUs. Rico subsidiaries in the US and Europe are always available to assist. AAN is also open to joining hands with an international company to develop a facility in a niche technology in the sector.
MSMEs in the Indian aerospace sector
The Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006 has provided a clear definition 
of MSMEs and based on their turnover 
classified them in two categories–manufacturing and services.
The large defence acquisition budget 
and proactive policy measures by the government discussed earlier have attracted a number of small and big 
private companies to enter the aerospace 
sector. According to the Society of Indian Aerospace Technologies and Industries (SIATI), there are roughly 500 MSMEs 
in the aerospace sector in India involved 
in supplying components to DPSUs, ordnance factories, DRDO and the armed forces. MSME cluster
Globally, aerospace hubs have emerged due to the presence of MSME clusters in close proximity to OEMs. The Indian 
aerospace MSME clusters are fragmented 
and yet to evolve. The cluster which has emerged in and around Bangalore has been driven by the presence of HAL along with other DPSUs. The Karnataka 
government is taking various initiatives 
to project the state as a global aerospace hub including creating an enabling policy and business environment. This would 
include incentives and concessions for 
MSMEs. The state has created a 1,000-acre aerospace park co-located with the Bangalore International Airport and is also setting aside at least 30% of land 
for allotment to MSMEs. However, much 
remains to be done at the central level to create policies that will provide a boost to MSMEs to work as clusters.
Maini  
Aerospace
Bangalore-based Maini Group entered the aerospace sector seven years ago with a strategy to further diversify by utilising the competencies in the other group companies by way of the a wide product base which could be aligned to the aerospace sector, their deep management skills and the exposure to international markets and partnerships.  Maini supplies indigenous battery operated eco-friendly tow trucks and utility carts for use in airfields. Naresh Palta, CEO, Maini Aerospace : 
“The focus of Maini Group will be in the aerospace industry in the medium-to-long-term. Maini’s aerospace activity has grown at 30% on a year-on-year basis over the last three years. Such growth rates are achievable if companies are able to relentlessly innovate and build their products and services up the technology value chain of the sector.” 
Gautam Maini, Director, Maini Group: 
“The aerospace business takes a lot of patience and time to build, but once that is done as in our case, we will start to see exponential growth in the future.” 
Spreading its wings Indian aviation23MSME challenges and threats 
Arunakar Mishra, CEO, Genser 
Aerospace, feels that even though the government is taking numerous 
initiatives, the effects are not percolating 
down to the MSMEs and the main reasons for this could be that policies are not being implemented well. Air Commodore (Retd) Joseph Varkey 
of SIATI observes that there is a trust 
deficit between different layers of the industry. He believes that given the stringent requirements expected in this 
sector, large players do not have the 
confidence in Indian MSMEs. If this is the case, the onus is on large players to take greater interest in helping MSMEs build capabilities.   
Indian MSMEs face the following 
challenges:
•	Nature and cost of business: 
MSMEs are sensitive to a highly 
capital-intensive aerospace business 
characterised by long gestational periods and cyclical growth. These factors make small players highly risk-averse affecting R&D spends and hence their ability to build innovative 
technologies. As a consequence, most 
MSMEs struggle to provide sustained and high quality support to larger players. 
•	Capital and payment issues: While availability and access to funding remains one of the biggest hurdles 
faced by MSMEs, the terms for 
accessing capital pose an even bigger challenge. Delay in payments from buyers to suppliers is another issue which adversely affects cash flows. 
•	Quality and L1 issues: While 
Indian manufacturing has improved 
significantly in quality control over time, a mature supplier base is still in an early stage of evolution. Add to 
this, accreditation is time-consuming 
and expensive in this low tolerance industry in which buyers expect the highest quality of products and services at the lowest possible price. Government initiatives 
The Indian government has announced the following measures in the last two years to address the challenges faced by 
MSMEs: 
•	Two MSME exchanges are being set up 
to facilitate easier access to capital. 
•	India Opportunities Venture Fund worth 5,000 crore INR is being 
created through the Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI).  
•	To create greater market access for MSMEs, the Public Procurement Policy has made it mandatory for ministries and central public sector enterprises 
(CPSEs) to procure a minimum of 20% 
of their annual procurements from MSMEs. 
•	To incentivise research, weighted deduction of 200% for in-house R&D expenditure has been extended by five 
years, i.e, up to 31 March 2017. 
•	The turnover limit for compulsory 
tax audit of account and presumptive taxation of MSMEs has been raised 
from 60 lakh INR to 1 crore INR 
with no capital gain on the sale of residential property. 
•	Within the Defence Offset Guidelines, a multiplier of 1.5 for sourcing from MSMEs has been announced.
•	The problems with delayed payments and corresponding liquidity issues being faced by MSMEs have been 
addressed to some extent by the 
Factoring Regulation Act. 
Besides these initiatives, the Planning Commission in its 12
th Five Year Plan 
2012-17 draft has set about examining 
the below measures which could provide 
further impetus to MSMEs: 
•	Creating a National Aeronautics 
Commission and formulating a national aeronautics policy
•	Strengthening certification organisations (e.g. CEMILAC, DGCA, etc.) 
•	Facilitating certification of MSMEs
•	Promoting PPP model with participation of MSMEs 
•	Creating aerospace clusters and earmarking aerospace special economic zones (SEZs) to include 
common infrastructure facilities for 
MSMEsRecent performance of MSMEs 
and future outlook
The offset experience brings some good 
news for MSMEs. Out of the 17 contracts signed in the A&D sector amounting 
to 4.28 billion USD since 2008, almost 
26% have been received by MSMEs. It is pertinent to note that these have been received by only a handful of companies. 
India ranks high as an outsourcing 
destination. Besides, the MoD has set itself a goal of sourcing 70% of all 
equipment from Indian companies–
(public and private sector) by 2020 which could provide further boost to MSMEs in the aerospace sector. 
PwC24Tax and regulatory 
framework in India
Regulatory regime
A domestic or foreign company wishing 
to do business in the Indian aerospace and defence industry has to comply with 
the following policies: 
• The Industrial Licensing Policy
• The Foreign Trade (Export/Import) 
Policy
• The FDI policy and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA)
• The Civil Aviation Regulations
• The Defence Procurement Procedure and the Offset Policy (specific to defence acquisitions)
Industrial Licensing Policy
Under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951, an industrial licence is required for manufacturing 
defence equipment. The applicant must 
be an Indian company or partnership and has to apply to the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP). The application is considered by an inter-
ministerial committee and the process 
takes about six months (currently, it is taking almost a year). There are a number of conditions and there is little 
clarity on the definition of ‘defence 
equipment’. The list of defence items for licensing is currently under preparation by a joint committee of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) and the Department of Defence 
Production (DDP).
Key note: No clarity on the definition of the 
term ‘defence equipment’ requiring IL and 
no clarity on ‘dual-use’ items for civil and defence application.
Foreign Trade Policy
The export and import of goods and services in India is presently governed  by the Foreign Trade Policy 2009-14 
(FTP). An export or import can be 
made by any person only against an import export code (IEC) number unless specifically exempted.  
Exports and imports are ‘free’ except 
where they are specifically regulated by the FTP or the ITC (HS).  The ITC (HS) 
(i.e. Indian Trade Classification based 
on Harmonised System of Coding) is adopted in India for regulating import-export operations. The ITC (HS) has two 
schedules that provide the rules  
and regulations for importing and exporting respectively. The ITC (HS) contains lists of items prohibited or restricted (i.e. subject to export or import licence) or freely exportable and importable (subject to conditions laid down against 
the respective entry (items) in the 
schedules). 
The Director General for Foreign Trade 
has made significant improvements in the approval process. Yet the ambiguity in defining defence equipment creates delays. Export of dual use items and 
technologies is governed by Appendix-3 
(SCOMET
1 List) of Schedule 2 of ITC 
(HS)2. There are practical challenges 
in understanding which items require licences and which approval process  will apply.
Key note: The definition of licensing 
requirements need to be clarified to  
iron out the practical challenges in 
obtaining licence, specifically in the case of software exports. The government continues to encourage private investment 
in both the civil and defence aerospace sector with the 
goal of encouraging technology transfers and achieving 
indigenisation. However, the ambiguity in the definition of defence equipment,  inconsistencies in multiple regulations, 
compounded by varying interpretations by different arms 
of the government pose significant barriers to investment.
1 Special Chemicals Organisms, Materials, Equipment 
and  Technologies
2 Indian Trade Classification based on Harmonised System of Coding
Spreading its wings Indian aviation25Private participation in the Indian 
defence sector
Hundred percent domestic investment 
is permitted in manufacturing defence equipment, subject to industrial 
licensing by the DIPP. FDI (including NRI 
investment) up to 26% is allowed in an Indian company manufacturing defence equipment subject to the company obtaining an IL from DIPP. There are 
other restrictions of a minimum lock-in 
period for investment with management and control of the company in Indian hands. Detailed guidelines with respect 
to the FDI and licensing policies are given 
in the consolidated FDI policy revised annually and press notes issued by the DIPP. The latest policy is contained in press note 1 of 2012. There is a point of 
view that this cap has constrained foreign 
investment in this sector. In the decade since FDI was allowed in the defence sector, a paltry 4 million USD has been invested as compared to over 180 billion 
USD in the entire economy. 
Key note: The objective of the Indian 
government is to achieve increased 
indigenisation. The key enablers for indigenisation are capital and transfer of technology The OEM has the full liability for supply in a  defence contract. It is 
unlikely that an OEM will agree to assume 
full liability but only a 26% control in an entity to which it would transfer technology and execute supply. 
Civil aviation
Recognising the need for policy overhaul 
to bring efficiencies in economic and 
operational aspects of the civil aviation industry, the Ministry of Civil Aviation is in the process of formulating a Civil 
Aviation Policy and examining the 
proposal of having a new Civil Aviation Act and Civil Aviation Rules to replace the present Aircraft Act, 1934 and  the Aircraft Rules, 1937 framed under 
the Act.FDI in civil aviation
By foreign airlines into domestic 
scheduled and non-scheduled air 
transport services
FDI up to 49% was permitted for 
scheduled air transport services or domestic scheduled passenger airlines under the automatic route. However, 
investment by NRIs was permitted up 
to 100% under the automatic route but foreign airlines were prohibited to invest in this segment. As a result of this 
restrictive policy, air transport (including 
air freight) attracted FDI worth of only ~446.70 million USD (~2,000 crore INR) during April 2000 to October 2012 (0.24% of all FDI inflows during 
this period).In September 2012, the 
government liberalised the FDI policy and allowed foreign airlines to buy up to 49% stake in Indian scheduled and non-scheduled carriers  under 
the government approval route. The 
liberalisation has been made to open additional avenues of finance for Indian carriers which are currently stressed by huge operating costs and mounting 
debt. However, the limit of 49% is 
imposed on the aggregate of FDI and foreign institutional investors (FII).  FDI is a primary market transaction where 
a strategic long-term partner invests in 
a company and brings not only capital but industry expertise along with it. However, FII investments are primarily secondary market transactions where 
large financial institutions and hedge 
funds trade in the shares of the company through stock markets. Therefore, this reduces the scope of strategic investment in Indian carriers that have FII 
investments. Therefore, there is a need to 
review this provision.
Another positive initiative by the 
government was to allow domestic scheduled passenger airlines to raise foreign currency debt (ECB) under the 
approval route for meeting their working 
capital needs. Such ECB needs to be raised within 12 months from the date of issue of circular. Other services
The following depicts FDI policy for other 
segments of the civil aviation sector, 
which is fairly liberal:
• Hundred percent FDI is permitted 
under the automatic route for MRO, flying training institutes and technical training institutions. Helicopter 
services or sea plane services and 
setting up of greenfield airport projects require the approval of the DGCA. However, existing airport 
projects will require the FIPB approval 
for FDI beyond 74%.
• FDI up to 74% permitted (automatic up to 49 %, beyond 49% under approval route) and NRI investment up to 100% under the automatic route is permitted for ground-handling 
services, subject to regulations in the 
sector and security clearances,  as well as in non-scheduled air transport services.
Key note: Subsuming FDI and FII with in the 49% limit for foreign airlines’ investment into domestic carriers may not 
result in substantial increase in foreign 
investment and may hence defeat the objective of increased foreign inflows, global best practices, technology, etc.
PwC26Defence Procurement Policy 
Defence procurement is governed by 
the DPP. First enumerated in 2002, the latest policy was released on 6 
January 2011 (DPP 2011). It lays out 
a transparent procedure for capital acquisitions by the MoD. The DPP includes the Defence Offset Policy. This policy was revised in July 2012 and has 
significantly liberalised and enlarged the 
avenues and products for discharging offset obligations, including allowing multipliers.
Defence Offset Policy: Revised 
guidelines
• Effective from 1 August 2012
• Mandatory offset requirement of 
minimum 30% for the procurement 
of defence equipment in excess of  3 billion INR
• Categories of schemes in which offsets are applicable: ‘Buy (global)’ and ‘buy and make’ with transfer of technology 
(ToT)
• Vendor free to choose Indian offset partner
• Indian offset partner to comply with only licensing requirements/
guidelines issued by the DPP
• The vendor to allow his Tier I sub-vendors under the main procurement contract to discharge offset obligations, to the extent of their work share (by value), on behalf of the 
main/prime vendor
• Offset obligations to be discharged within a timeframe that can extend 
beyond the period of the main procurement contract by a maximum period of two years
• Offsets obligations can be discharged by any combination of the following methods:
- Direct purchase of, or, executing 
export orders for eligible products 
manufactured by, or services provided by Indian enterprises
- FDI in joint ventures with Indian enterprises for manufacture or maintenance of eligible products 
and provision of eligible services
- Investment in ‘kind’ in terms 
of ToT to Indian enterprises for manufacture and/or maintenance 
of eligible products and provision 
of eligible services (through joint ventures or through the non-equity route). Offset credit for ToT shall be 10% of value of buyback to the 
extent of value addition in India. ToT should be provided without 
licence fee and there should be no restriction on domestic production, sale or export.
- Investment in ‘kind’ in Indian enterprises in terms of provision of 
equipment through the non-equity 
route for the manufacture and/or maintenance of eligible products and provision of eligible services. 
Vendor to buy back minimum 40% 
of eligible products and services.
- Provision of equipment and/or ToT to government institutions and establishments engaged in the manufacture and/or 
maintenance of eligible products 
and provision of eligible services, including the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)
- Technology acquisition by the DRDO in areas of high technology
 Note: Minimum 70% of the offset 
obligation shall be discharged by (a) to 
(d) above.
• Multipliers of 1.5 permitted where MSMEs are Indian offset partners and 
a multiplier of up to three permitted for high technology acquisition by the DRDO.
• The Defence Offset Management Wing (DOMW) has now replaced the erstwhile DOFA and will be 
responsible for all matters related 
to offsets management, monitoring, policy formulation and banking.
• Banked offset credits to be valid for a period of seven years from the date of acceptance by the DOMW.
• Transfer of credits is allowed between an OEM and its Tier I supplier within the same programme, with a 50% cap on using banked credits.
• List of products eligible for the discharge of offset obligations has 
been enlarged and includes defence, 
inland and coastal security, civil aerospace products and services related to eligible products.
• Offset implementation reports to be submitted every six months during the implementation stage.
• Overall penalty capped at 20% of total offset obligation.
• Re-phasing and change in offset partners or offset components is 
allowed by DOMW in exceptional 
circumstances provided the overall value of the offset obligation remains unchanged.

Spreading its wings Indian aviation27Tax policies
Corporate income tax
• Permitted business presence in India 
for a foreign company includes project office, branch office, liaison office and subsidiary or JV company. Limited 
liability partnerships (LLPs) can also 
be incorporated for carrying out activities where 100% FDI is allowed, through the automatic route (such as rendering marketing or other similar 
services).  
• Effective corporate tax rate for domestic companies is 32.445%; 
30.9% for LLPs and 42.024% for foreign companies. 
• While dividend income received from a domestic company is exempt in the hands of the shareholder, dividend 
distribution tax (DDT) at 16.22% is 
levied on the companies declaring dividends. Presently, LLPs are not subject to DDT.
• Minimum alternate tax (MAT) or alternate minimum tax (AMT) is applicable at 20.01% (companies) 
and 19.05% (LLPs) of book profits 
when tax liability under normal tax provisions of the domestic tax code is less than 18.5% of book profits. 
• India has entered into comprehensive treaties for avoidance of double taxation (tax treaties) with over 
82 countries. Tax treaties can be 
invoked by taxpayers, wherever their provisions are more beneficial over the domestic tax laws of India. However, in order to obtain any benefit under 
a tax treaty, it is necessary for the 
non-resident taxpayer to furnish a tax residency certificate containing prescribed particulars from its 
government.
• India has also entered into tax information exchange agreements 
with over 21 countries.  
• A well-established withholding tax regime exists in India. The payer is required to withhold tax on all payments to non-residents, taxable in India. Further, certain payments 
made to residents also attract tax 
withholding provisions.
• Fees for technical services and royalty are taxable in India on source basis and attract a tax withholding of 10.506% under the domestic tax code. 
• Tax losses can be carried forward for eight years, while tax depreciation can be carried forward indefinitely.• The Finance Act, 2012 introduced General Anti Avoidance Rules (GAAR) 
provisions in India. However, based on 
expert committee recommendations, these provisions have been deferred till 2015 (FY 2015-16). 
• The Direct Taxes Code, proposing to revamp the existing legislation, is under consideration. However, there is 
no clarity on the date of its enactment.
Key note: Foreign companies, especially those in the aerospace and defence 
(A&D) sector, should carefully structure their Indian operations and crossborder movement of personnel, to mitigate chances of constituting a permanent 
establishment. Domestic tax laws now 
also require the LOs of foreign companies in India to provide comprehensive details regarding the transactions undertaken by them in India, resulting in closer 
monitoring by the relevant authorities.
Corporate tax incentives
• Units set up in an SEZ get 100% tax 
holiday on profits on exports for five years and 50% tax holiday for the next 10 years (subject to specified 
conditions), but they are subject to 
MAT provisions.
• Income earned by a foreign company by way of fees for technical services or royalty, pursuant to an agreement with the central government, for 
providing services on projects 
concerning the security of India is exempt from tax, provided it is notified in the official gazette.
• Undertakings manufacturing specified goods located in notified states enjoy 100% tax holiday up to March 2017.
• Deduction of 200% is available for scientific research expenditure 
incurred by a company engaged in 
the manufacture or production of any article (subject to certain exceptions), on in-house R&D facility (up to 31 March 2017).
• Any sum paid to a national laboratory, a university, an Indian Institute of 
Technology or an approved scientific 
research programme qualifies for a weighted deduction of 200%. A weighted deduction of 125% is also available in respect of any sum paid 
for scientific research to a domestic 
company, if such a company fulfils some prescribed conditions.

PwC28Transfer pricing
The Indian TP regulations prescribe 
that income arising from ‘international transactions’ between ‘associated enterprises’ should be computed 
with regard to the ‘arm’s length price’ 
(ALP). The expressions international transactions, associated enterprises and arm’s length price have been defined by the new enactment.
Recent developments in transfer pricing
Advance pricing agreement
With a view to address the large scale 
litigation in TP, the government has introduced advance pricing agreement (APA) in the Finance Act, 2012 with 
effect from 1 July 2012.
The Central Board of Direct Taxes 
(CBDT) has been empowered to 
enter into an APA with any taxpayer undertaking international transactions to determine the ALP or specifying the manner in which ALP shall be 
determined. The APA so entered shall 
be binding on the taxpayer and the tax authorities in respect of the transaction covered under the agreement. Such 
agreement shall be valid for a period not 
exceeding five years. 
The CBDT, by notification in the official 
gazette, has introduced the detailed rules providing the procedures and necessary forms for application/administration of the APAs.
Application of TP to specified domestic 
transactions
Before the last budget, Indian TP 
regulations were applicable only to 
international transactions entered 
into with associated enterprises. The application of transfer pricing regulations has now been extended to specified domestic related party transactions as 
well. Specified domestic transactions 
(SDT) essentially include expenditure in respect of which payment has been made or is to be made to a person referred in section 40A(2)(b) of the Act, and 
transactions referred in sections 80A, 
80IA(8) and 80IA(10), chapter VI-A, and section 10AA of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Accordingly, the taxpayer will be 
required to undertake annual TP 
compliance in respect of the SDT. This 
amendment will take effect from 1 April 2013 and will, accordingly, apply in relation to the assessment year (AY) 2013-14 (corresponding to FY 2012-13) 
and subsequent years. Indirect tax
•	 Customs	duties:	Effective customs 
duty rate on the import of goods is 28.85% based on peak rate of 
customs. Exemption from customs duty is available for a majority of goods imported in relation to defence and commercial airlines, subject to 
fulfillment of conditions. For instance, 
customs duty is exempt on imports of aircraft and parts imported for maintenance, repair and overhaul of aircraft subject to specified conditions.
 Key note: With respect to the defence sector, these exemptions are typically 
available where MoD or its contractors 
(private companies) are importers of goods and are not available where goods are imported by Indian offset partners 
for further processing and delivery 
to MoD, which militates against the indigenisation policy. 
•	 Excise	duty:	Effective excise duty rate 
is 12.36% (inclusive of education cess) on manufacturing activity. Exemption from excise duty is available for aircraft if sold to the government or to commercial airlines engaged in 
specified activities. 
 Key note:  Goods supplied against international competitive bidding (ICB) 
are exempt from excise duty, subject to conditions. The challenge on the ground is to ensure that these benefits actually accrue.
•	 VAT/CST:	While inter-state sale of 
goods is subject to the levy of central sales tax (CST), intra-state sale of goods is subject to the levy of value 
added tax (VAT). The CST rate is 2% 
if the prescribed statutory form (i.e. Form C) is issued by the purchaser, whereas if no forms are provided, the VAT rate applicable in the originating 
state of the seller will be applicable. 
For most goods, the VAT rate ranges from 4 to 15%, depending on the nature of goods. Sale of spares under 
the MRO operations is charged to VAT 
which ranges from 4 to 15% across the states. Typically, airline operators do not have the option to buy it at concessional rate of CST against usage 
of Form C as they do not meet the 
eligibility criteria for issuance of  Form C. Key note: No general exemptions 
or concessions are available on the 
sale of goods to commercial airlines. Accordingly, the relevant state VAT legislation should be examined and the possibility of special dispensation 
if required from the state government 
should be explored. Participants in India’s MRO industry believe that the tax regime needs to change in order to enable India in positioning itself as an 
MRO hub to the world.
•	 Service	tax:	With effect from 1 July 
2012, the service tax regime in India 
has undergone a significant change 
whereby service tax has been made 
applicable on all services provided in India unless specified otherwise. The term ‘service’ has been defined as any 
activity carried out by a person for 
another for a consideration. Generally, the liability to pay service tax is on the provider of the service. However, for a few specified services including 
the import of services, liability to 
pay service tax shifts on the service recipient. Service tax rate is 12.36% (inclusive cess). In addition, in terms of the recently introduced Place of 
Provision of Service Rules, 2012, MRO 
services may not qualify as export of services from India since the aircraft would need to be in India for repairing purposes. 
 Key note:  Under the service tax regime, there is an exemption for services 
provided to the government in relation 
to repair or maintenance of a vessel or an aircraft. Therefore, MRO services provided to the government would 
be exempt from service tax. However, 
there is no similar exemption for these services if provided to non government service recipients.  However, the burden gets reduced to the extent of service tax 
credit admissible to MRO customers. In 
addition to the above, various categories of services when provided to the government, e.g. servicing an aircraft have also been exempt from payment of 
service tax.
Spreading its wings Indian aviation29Way forward 
• Rationalise the tax structure to promote greater value-add in India 
as the current tax and duty regime makes the Indian manufacturer uncompetitive and directly works against the indigenisation policy 
of the government. There is an inverted tax and duty structure. 
Direct imports by the MoD are duty- and tax-free but the Indian offset partner and industry face duties and taxes for imports of components as well as local value-add (VAT alone ranges from  4 to 15%).  The following model illustrates the differential burden 
to be faced in building a domestic supply chain compared to direct 
imports by MoD.
• Allowing foreign airlines to contribute to the capital base of Indian carriers is a welcome move as it opens the sector to foreign equity, global best practices, management expertise, training and code 
sharing, etc. However, combining FDI and FII and restricting overall 
investment within the 49% limit has diluted the intent and may not get too much traction from foreign investors as existing Indian players already have some FII investment.  
• The limit of 26% FDI in defence manufacturing should be increased to meet the stated objective of increased indigenisation of defence manufacturing. 
• Technology transfer to government institutions has been allowed for offset credits. Building consensus on the valuation of technology 
between government institutions and foreign OEMs will continue to 
be a challenge.
• Eligibility of a wholly owned subsidiary in India of a foreign company to be an offset partner requires clarity.
• There is a need to reconcile multiple and often contradictory policies and their interpretation by different arms of the government. This acts as an entry barrier for OEMs.Taxes levied on domestic manufacturing and direct imports
Particulars Domestic value-add Direct imports by MoD
Customs duty Conditional customs duty 
exemption available on case-to-
case basisCustoms duty exemption 
available since imports by MoD
Excise duty Excise duty exemptions available to specified projects   Excise duty not applicable
Central sales 
tax (CST)No exemption. CST payable @ 2% CST not applicable
Value added 
tax (VAT)No VAT exemption. VAT is payable @ 4%-15% VAT not applicable
Service tax Service tax applicable on 
inputs services like payment 
on technical knowhow and 
engineering services. No 
exemption availableService tax not applicable as 
services to government have 
been specifically exempted • The states are also authorised to 
levy other local taxes such as entry tax. Further, local authorities and 
municipal corporations impose local 
taxes.
• Research and development cess is applicable on import of technology into India by an industrial concern under a foreign collaboration. Presently, cess is applicable at the 
rate of 5%. However, the cess can be 
adjusted against service tax liability accruing under certain service categories.
• Indirect tax incentives are available to SEZ units for its authorised 
operations.
PwC30Within India, the next five years will see 
considerable change in the dynamics of the industry. Historically, the industry 
has been dominated by DPSUs, chiefly 
HAL. The infrastructure to support this industry in terms of educational institutions, regulatory policies and the nature of demand was also oriented 
towards strengthening the public sector 
and was orchestrated by the government. 
The industry is still in a nascent stage of 
evolution but the good news is that the results of liberalisation and proactive policy decisions by the government in 
the last 10 years are beginning to bear 
fruit. Several large private sector groups such as the Tatas, L&T, Mahindra and Mahindra and a large number of smaller companies have entered this sector 
and are supplying limited parts and 
equipment to the armed forces, DPSUs and Tier I and Tier II foreign companies.Building a 
domestic aerospace industrial base 
An overview of the different market segments starting from military 
to civil and general aviation demonstrates that both the global and 
the Indian scenario for aerospace industry are changing rapidly. 
While developed markets of North America and Western Europe continue to dominate the industry in terms of a manufacturing 
base and have a significant market size, growth is occurring in the 
Asia-Pacific region. This is prompting a number of global OEMs to re-consider their market position and their strategies. Technology, 
manufacturing capacity and skills continue to reside largely in North 
America and Europe, while considerable re-tooling is taking place in the Asia-Pacific region to build capabilities for the future.
Select joint ventures/collaborations in the aerospace sector
Company name Foreign partner Product
HAL •	United Aircraft Corporation
•	Rolls Royce
•	BAE•	Fifth generation fighter 
•	Aircraft engine components
•	Avionics
Tata Group •	Sikorsky
•	Augusta Westland
•	Thales 
•	Lockheed Martin•	Helicopter cabin
•	Helicopter components
•	Airborne optronics 
•	Aero-structures
L&T •	EADS
•	Pratt & Whitney •	Radars, avionics, and electronic 
warfare equipment
•	Aircraft engine components 
BEL •	Thales •	Electronic systems 
Samptel •	Thales •	Electronic systems 
Spreading its wings Indian aviation31India potential
The fact that India is one of the fastest 
growing aerospace markets in the world has been well amplified in the earlier 
chapters of this report. The procurement 
pipeline of military as well as civil aircraft is going to be enormous over the next two decades. In addition to this, there exists a large MRO market 
opportunity as well as potential for high 
value R&D in engineering outsourced services and avionics. 
However, doing business in India remains 
a challenge both from a demand as well as a supply perspective. From a demand 
perspective, while the overall size of the 
market remains big and is anticipated to grow, there is uncertainty related to the regulatory regime. The nature of demand particularly in the military sector 
remains highly unpredictable. The civil 
sector, where private airlines have now created a large and growing market, is still struggling with issues of profitability. The expansion of the aviation industry 
into the fabric of the country through 
the creation of smaller airports is still in its early stages, while the MRO industry where India could take a lead is suffering from a lack of competitiveness relative to 
Singapore, Dubai and Sri Lanka. From a supply perspective, aerospace 
companies are taking their first steps in setting up a private industrial base. While HAL continues to meet the needs of the 
military aviation sector, acquisitions by 
private companies is pointing to greater participation in segments of the civil aviation industry. The acquisition and development of key technologies and 
manufacturing skills related to setting up 
a comprehensive industrial base is in its early stages of evolution. In this respect, countries like Malaysia and South Africa which are much smaller than India both 
in terms of geographic and aerospace 
size have created a much more robust industrial base. 
Both domestic players and international 
entrants need to lay emphasis on setting the foundations of their businesses so that they are able to capture value as 
the Indian aerospace market matures 
over the next five years. In doing so, stakeholders need to understand the nature of the market, their participation 
in key sectors of the value chain, making 
investments in building capabilities for those parts of the value chain and executing for the long run. 
In this context, Jayant Patil, EVP 
Defence and Aerospace, L&T commented, “Other arms of the defence sector like the Indian Navy took early steps in indigenising the defence production process, and have benefitted from close partnership with the private sector. The aerospace sector is starting down this path. We believe using expertise from the private sector in myriad technologies and industrial processes can help accelerate the development of this important sector.”
The next five years will see a maturity in 
the market that has to be assessed and understood by key industry players as they craft their strategies.
PwC32Growth of companies in aerospace
•	 Access	to	technology:	Participation 
to the standards needed for aerospace 
OEMs will lead to a huge boost in 
private sector domestic players who 
will get a quantum leap due to access and support around technology, systems and practices to make this venture a success. 
Aerospace value chain 
participation potential
As we look at the future of this industry, 
and as companies look at entering or strengthening their position in the 
industry, they need to examine the 
aerospace value chain and find their area of growth and competency. 
The aerospace value chain comprises 
six key components. Each of these components, with the exception of weapons systems, exists in civil and 
military applications. Understanding this 
value chain and ensuring that companies are positioned to specialise and exploit their part of the value chain will be 
crucial for success in this market.
Overall, given the capacity pressures on 
the global and nationalised domestic 
players, there appears to be a compelling case for greater presence of domestic private sector players across the value chain.Aerospace value chain 
The Indian industry has already made inroads in the IT and engineering design parts of the value chain. As described 
in the MRO section, limited MRO 
success is also beginning to show. In order to excel in the entire value chain serviced from India, companies need to focus on areas related to the R&D 
and manufacturing parts of the value 
chain while strengthening areas where there is an existing presence. Only by doing so will Indian players create a 
comprehensive industrial base for the 
aerospace industry. In executing their strategies, companies 
and stakeholders will have to build a 
strong ecosystem for collaboration. This will happen between OEMs and Tier Is, DPSUs, emerging large and MSME private Indian companies, industry 
associations and think-tanks. The future 
success of the aerospace industry in India, we believe, will depend in large measure on this collaborative effort.
In addition, the government has 
created a strong offset policy which is helping create an impetus for local manufacturing and transfer of 
technology, resulting in an increase in 
the revenue from this sector. These will be critical to strengthening the industry.
•	 Increase	in	revenue	and	GDP:	
Domestic value addition in parts of 
the aerospace supply chain will lead to increased revenues and will contribute 
to the overall economic activity in 
aerospace. 
•	 Job	creation:	Increase in orders 
to private sector and capability development will lead to increased job opportunities across multiple sectors 
from design to manufacturing to MRO 
segments. The indirect multiplier of these jobs will also increase overall employment opportunity created.We see companies in the Aerospace industry going through a three phased entry and growth cycle
Spreading its wings Indian aviation33Key challenges  
In understanding the challenges for 
the industry, we have used the value chain for a view both from a demand 
perspective, on the right end of the value 
chain, and a supply perspective, on the left end of the value chain. In addition, the Indian value chain has to recognise that for a number of companies in this 
industry it should seek to be part of the 
global value chain, recognising the core competency of the industry currently and where it can stretch itself over the next 
five years.
a. Demand-side challenges:
•	Difficulty	in	selling	to	the	market:	
The lack of internationally  
recognised products by domestic 
players has created a situation where OEMs are waiting for Indian companies to demonstrate capability. Indian companies are handicapped  by their need for support from OEMs 
to deliver. 
•	Lumpiness of the defence sector: The defence sector is the driver of 
offsets currently expected to support the development of the aerospace sector in India. The inherent nature 
of this space (delays, lumpiness, 
poor future visibility, etc) creates challenges in planning investments and returns which makes fund sourcing increasingly difficult. •	Sales complexity: The aerospace market from DPSUs to OEMs to private and smaller companies has to build capabilities to sell in a market 
with long procurement cycles and 
complex and constantly changing procurement dynamics. This will require a generation of sales leaders who understand both the technical 
and economic complexity of an 
aerospace sale process. 
b. Supply-side challenges:
•	Low rates of market acceptance: The absence of international 
certifications and lack of material 
incentive to drive sales have led to minimal uptake from the market. With the offset policy changes and reducing 
capacities across primes and supply 
chain participants, this could change in the near future. 
•	Lack of manufacturing capabilities: The aerospace industry requires complex quality requirements backed 
by certificates. Primes have rigorous 
standards to test and measure the quality of manufacturing and service. Currently, the Indian manufacturing industry has not tooled up to such 
quality standards, which require 
capital-intensive equipment, training and supporting infrastructure that can meet these stringent demands. •	Skill sets for servicing the industry: DPSUs have traditionally provided the managerial and technical skill sets for the industry. As the industry 
grows at a rapid pace, the number of 
skilled personnel who can be inducted through these DPSUs is limited. This is both at the managerial level as well as the shopfloor level.
MRO faces its own challenges,  which are as follows:
•	Lack of access to land: MRO 
facilities by necessity need to be located near airports. However, one of the key challenges with India’s 
rapid urbanisation has been that 
now most airports are situated inside heavily populated regions. This leads to reduced efficiencies for MRO operations driving up costs and 
reducing competitiveness. 
•	Tax and regulatory structure reducing competitiveness: The tax 
framework in India attracts multiple 
incidences of tax which drives up costs for MRO players. This dilutes the value proposition of a lost-cost 
hub and instead increases reliance on 
geographical proximity as the driver.Aerospace value chain
PwC34Recommendations for 
overcoming challenges and 
key learnings from market 
leaders
As the industry matures, more can 
be done through policymaking and streamlining of regulation to allow the 
industry to accelerate its growth. In 
addition, as companies seek to enter and grow in this market, we see key patterns that differentiate the successful players from others. 
a. At a macro level there are key 
learnings for the industry as a 
whole:
Benchmark against other countries
A number of countries, including smaller 
countries like Malaysia have created a robust supply chain for the aerospace industry and are seen as credible parts of global value chains of international 
OEMs. Israel and South Africa are 
creating a fast-growing military aviation industry while Brazil has shown leadership in general aviation. These countries can provide lessons for the 
Indian aerospace industry.
Create	a	clear	demand	profile	and	
streamline procurement
The medium and long-term perspective plans for the military and homeland security aviation sectors have been 
framed but not shared with the industry. 
Sharing equipment requirements over the long term in a transparent manner, without compromising national security, will provide the industry with 
information and confidence to invest in 
a production process that is measured in decades rather than years. In addition, procurement learnings from more mature aerospace markets will allow the 
procurement process to be streamlined, 
lowering cost for the buyer and seller in this industry.
Remove ambiguities in licensing and 
export policiesWe need to recognise that exports are essential for developing competitiveness, 
removing lumpiness of domestic 
orders and building global quality and competitiveness. At present, there are many grey areas around the licensing 
requirements due to poor definition of 
defence items. Establish a robust security policy A key argument against raising the FDI limit in the defence sector is national 
security. Creating a security policy will 
free the debate on FDI limits of this bogey. This is essential if the private sector is to be involved in strategic defence programmes. Many advanced 
countries have done so and we need to 
learn from their experience. 
Bring	clarity	on	the	definition	of	
defence equipmentThe problems relating to licensing and export clearances are rooted in the fact that there is no clarity on what defence 
equipment constitutes. The government 
has been trying to arrive at a consensual definition for the past three years and this process must be completed soon.
Focus on limited platforms to build a 
vendor base
The Indian Air Force has over 45 
platforms in use. This makes it difficult to build a vendor base as they have been provided by OEMs from several countries and work against building economies 
of scale. By limiting the number of 
platforms in use, providers can focus and scale up production. 
Policy incentive and clustering for 
MSMEsThe industry will mature if the supplier base starting from Tier III and below is 
encouraged to improve its quality and 
manufacturing prowess. As supply chain infrastructure is also a key factor in the provision of timely and high quality service, clustering of MSMEs with the 
provision of high quality infrastructure 
will enable these smaller players. Align policies to create synergiesAn Indian or foreign company that 
wishes to work in this sector has to 
comply with multiple polices that are often contradictory. These need to be aligned and the tax framework 
rationalised to encourage the use of local 
resources to build the country’s skills and expertise across the aerospace value chain. 
Procurement and governance 
improvementsThe procurement process and the 
governance structure for government 
programmes have to evolve to take into account greater participation of the private sector. Currently, the DPSUs are often close to the procurement process 
which leads to a perception that the 
process is not fair to the private sector. As the industry structure moves towards private sector orientation, this needs to be re-examined and improved. Lessons 
from more developed markets like the UK 
will help streamline these processes.
Cost of capital to compete
A key finding from our interviews is the high cost of capital in the Indian context, both for servicing large infrastructure 
investments for large programmes as 
well as MSME promotion. As this is a capital-intensive industry, there could be a more pro-active assessment if the overseas borrowing norms can be relaxed 
for these segments.
Goodrich Aerospace 
(UTC Aerospace  Systems)
UTC Aerospace Systems was formed by merging Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand in 2012. 
Goodrich is primarily engaged 
in the manufacture of aircraft components and rendering engineering design services. 
It manufactures and exports 
cargo products, aircraft lighting parts, actuation systems, evacuation systems, engine control and electronic power systems, sensors and integrated systems. Chris Rao, Vice President, UTC: “When 
Goodrich started in Bangalore more a decade ago, there was practically no vendor base in India and everything had to start from the ground. Over the past 13 years, Goodrich has been able to success-fully build a handful of quality vendors, in and around Bangalore, through constant training and involvement to bring them to a certain standard. Today, we source 22% of our raw materials from India and this is likely to increase to 70% over the next 10 years. While raw material costs account to 50 to 60% of the final product, even today, most raw materials are imported. Also, big Indian players have a crucial role to play. In a highly capital-intensive sector, they should bring in greater synergies and be more forthcoming in collaborating rather than competing. As far as military aviation is concerned, UTC will consider JVs for offsets only if the investments are justified.”
Spreading its wings Indian aviation35b. At a company level, the following 
are key learnings from industry leaders:
While these are relatively early days, companies who have created initial 
leadership provide important lessons for 
those who are looking to enter and grow in the industry.
Build capabilities for the long haul
A number of leading companies are investing gradually to build capabilities for a 15- to 20-year time horizon. 
Companies who thought that the Indian 
aerospace market would yield rapid results have been disappointed, but those who understand the nature of the 
industry, its typical buying cycles and the 
complexity of the procurement process in India have been more gradual and foundational. Their strategy is to scale up around an anchor programme or order.
Build capabilities for the global supply 
chain
While the Indian market will remain 
the key catalyst for scaling up the industry, the lumpy nature of the market, particularly the military, demands that companies wanting to enter this market 
also link themselves with the global 
supply chain of aerospace. This will build and test capabilities before a significant Indian programme is executed from the industrial capability created.Acquisition and partnering to enter and growA number of companies have acquired 
technology through an acquisition or 
entered into a partnership where their manufacturing capability in India gets the benefit of proven technology. Tata’s acquisition of a one third stake in Piaggio 
Aero, an Italian aircraft manufacturer, is 
an example of such strategic acquisitions. Tata Lockheed Martin Aero-structures Ltd is a JV between Tata and Lockheed 
Martin for a similar reason.
Lead with the engineering design and 
IT areas to build 
International OEMs as well as Indian companies are trying to establish their presence in the international supply chain by entering using India’s 
engineering talent pool. There are 
significant cost and skill gains from engineering design and IT services areas. This is therefore a good entry point given that engineering talent is in high demand 
in the more developed economies.
Axis Aerospace
Axis Aerospace offers solutions in the areas 
of engineering services, avionics and testing, manufacturing and life-cycle support. With a global footprint across India, Europe and the US, Axis is one of the emerging companies in the aerospace sector. 
Last year, Cades, an Axis group company, was selected 
by Airbus to set up an offshore development centre on fuselage after a rigorous evaluation of 21 companies.  CADES is one among a select few companies globally with E2S preferred supplier certification to EADS and its group companies. This certification provides access and ability to do work with various EADS group companies including Eurocopter, Cassidian, etc.
CADES has recently opened an offshore development 
centre adjacent to the Airbus facility at Toulouse.Sudhakar Gande, Vice Chairman, Axis Aerospace and 
Technologies : “A series of deals and transactions have been closed in the recent past and overall, the sector is showing a positive trend. This could be attributed to the need to modernise, upgrade and replace and acquire aircraft and related systems and equipment. After a series of DPPs, the government has done a commendable job in issuing a reasonably good set of policy framework and guidelines for offsets which is more balanced and has brought in greater clarity on various issues. We have grown over 40% in the last two to three years which is well above the market average. We are confident of maintaining this growth over the next four to five years.”Become a fabric of the industry
A number of private companies, international OEMs in particular and 
DPSUs as well are looking at investing 
into this sector for the long haul. The leaders in this sector are creating a culture that moves away from ‘sales’ to understanding the entire dynamics of 
this industry. This is to give assurance 
to key stakeholders, including the government that they are here for the long haul. This softer ‘licence to operate’ 
is a crucial ingredient of success in this 
market.
PwC36Sources
Websites, articles and reports
http://www.gbta.org/Lists/Resource%20Library/General%20Aviation%20Options%20for%20Business.pdfhttp://www.bga-aeroweb.com/General-Aviation.html
PwC Report - General Aviation – Unfolding Horizons
http://www.rediff.com/business/slide-show/slide-show-1-8-most-expensive-private-jets-owned-by-indian-
billionaires/20111230.htm
http://www.frost.com/sublib/display-market-insight-top.do?id=246211874http://www.flightglobal.com/news/articles/in-focus-indian-business-aviation-snagged-by-constraints-368757/Harris Interactive’s The Real World of Business Aviation: A Survey of Companies Using General Aviation Aircrafthttp://www.usitc.gov/publications/332/pub4314.pdf
http://msme.gov.in/MSME-Annual-Report-2011-12-English.pdf
http://pib.nic.in/newsite/erelease.aspx?relid=81107http://eprocure.gov.in/cppp/sites/default/files/gos/imsme_FinalPressorder.pdf http://www.airbus.com/company/worldwide-presence/airbus-in-india/
http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2012-04-07/news/31304874_1_defence-ministry-cabinet-secretary-
commerce-ministry
Spreading its wings Indian aviation37Acknowledgements
We are grateful to the following participants in India’s Aerospace industry who generously provided us with 
their time, thoughts and expertise:
1. Eric Lenseigne, Country Head and Managing Director, Thales India 
2. Ram Prasad, Managing Director, Rockwell Collins
3. Rahul Chaudhry, CEO, Tata Power SED
4. Arvind Mehra, Executive Director & CEO, Mahindra Aerospace
5. Chris Rao, Vice President, UTC
6. Rishi Malhotra, General Manager, Bell Helicopters, India
7. BS Singh Deo, Managing Director, Bell Helicopters, India
8. K V Krishnan, Vice President MRO Operations, Airworks
9. Sandeep Wadhwa, Director, Nash Industries
10. S M Kapoor, CEO , TAAL
11. Naresh Palta, CEO, Maini Aerospace 
12. Gautam Maini, Director, Maini Group
13. RS Kundi, Director, AAN Engineering
14. Sudhakar Gande, Vice Chairman, Axis Aerospace and Technologies 
15. Arunakar Mishra, CEO, Genser Aerospace
16. Air Commodore (Retd) Joseph Varkey, Secretary General, SIATI
17. Jayant Patil, EVO, Defence and Aerospace, L&T 
Special thanks to the following members of PwC for their tremendous contribution in the finalisation  
of this report: 
1. Lakshminarainan R
2. Manish Agarwal
3. Mehul Kain
4. Prashant Gupta
5. Tejasvi Gupta 
6. Nidhi Jain
7. Rahul Trivedi
8. Ashwin Bhatnagar
9. Akash Gandhi
10. Siddharth Pai 
11. Mugdha Narayan
12.  Ashwini Dash
About FICCI 
Established in 1927, FICCI is the largest and oldest apex business organisations in India. Its history is 
closely interwoven with India’s struggle for independence, its industrialisation, and its emergence as one of the most rapidly growing global economies. FICCI has contributed to this historical process by 
encouraging debate, articulating the private sector’s views and influencing policy.
A non-government, not-for-profit organisation, FICCI is the voice of India’s business and industry.
FICCI draws its membership from the corporate sector, both private and public, including SMEs 
and MNCs. FICCI enjoys an indirect membership of over 2,50,000 companies from various regional 
chambers of commerce.
Team 
Geethanjali Nataraj
Director FICCI Defence and Aerospace
+91 11 23487331
geethanjali.nataraj@ficci.com
Vidhi	Upadhyay 
Senior Assistant Director 
FICCI Defence and Aerospace 
+91 11 23487213 Vidhi.upadhyay@ficci.com 
Amit Kumar 
Assistant Director 
FICCI Defence and Aerospace +91 11 23487583 Amit.kumar@ficci.com
About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 
158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, 
Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate 
legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
PwC India Aerospace and Defence Team Dhiraj Mathur
Executive Director 
Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice +91 124 3306 005dhiraj.mathur@in.pwc.com
Rajiv Chib 
Associate DirectorAerospace and Defence Practice +91 124 3306 026rajiv.chib@in.pwc.com
Gautam Khattar 
Associate Director Indirect Tax +91 124 3306 528
gautam.khattar@in.pwc.com
Kamal Abrol 
Executive Director Corporate Tax 
+91 124 3306510 
kamal.abrol@in.pwc.com
Rajeev Singh
Executive Director
India Advisory, Operations
+91 124 330520rajeev.singh@in.pwc.comShashank TripathiExecutive Director Leader, Strategy and Research Practice 
+ 91 22 6669 1002
shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.com
Arunkumar BS
Executive Director  
Financial Advisory Services
+91 80 4079 7004arunkumar.bs@in.pwc.com
Narendra Soorabathula
Executive Director
PwC PRTM Consulting+91 80 4010 0900 narendra.soorabathula@in.prtm.pwc.com
Chetan Anand
Senior ManagerTax and Regulatory Services+91 80 4079 6030chetan.anand@in.pwc.com
Nidhi Kansal 
Senior Manager Aerospace & Defence Practice+91 124 330 6124
nidhi.kansal@in.pwc.com
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 448 - February 2013 AviationReport.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
