Title: pwc_m2m-technologies
Date Published: 2013-11-14 14:27:05+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_m2m-technologies.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

M2M technologies
www.pwc.in
White paper on M2M technologies  
Background p4/M2M in India p5/ Market potential p11/ Key issues for M2M in India p12/ 
Conclusionp14/ Contactsp17

Message
The wireless subscriber base in India has reached 870 million, opening a new market for M2M 
which is already growing at a fast pace worldwide. M2M technologies allow both wireless and 
wired systems to communicate with other devices and systems of the same ability. Innovative 
applications such as smart cars, connected homes, smart metering, remote management and 
industrial data collection will be major revenue drivers of service providers worldwide in the 
near future.
We, in ASSOCHAM, are of the firm belief that M2M along with cloud computing and IPv6 will 
usher in a major revolution in India. M2M can touch each and every citizen’s life in a profound 
way–be it financial inclusion, security, tracking, health, etc. M2M will pave the way for smart 
and efficient systems–electricity, water, smart cities, etc. The increased efficiencies in every 
sphere of life will help increase national productivity which is the need of the hour for our 
nation.
ASSOCHAM will continue to engage in providing an effective forum to facilitate dialogue 
between the Department of Telecom, the telecom industry and other stakeholders for ensuring a 
suitable M2M policy framework.
D. S. Rawat
Secretary General
ASSOCHAM

4       PwC M2M technologies          5 
 1. Background 2. M2M in India
What is M2M?
The term M2M , also commonly known as ubiquitous or 
pervasive computing refers to what is essentially a four-step 
process: data is generated, data is transmitted, data is analysed, 
and data acted upon.  Other names that define M2M or its 
subsets include the ‘internet of things’, ‘connected devices’, 
‘remote monitoring and diagnostics’, ‘smart computing’, ‘smart 
metering’ and ‘extended internet’. 
M2M (machine to machine) leverages innovations in micro 
computing and wireless technology that allow embedded 
devices to collect and distribute real-time data and has the 
potential to connect millions of machines today, and even 
more in the near future. In simple terms, M2M is defined as a 
technology that enables electronic and mechanical devices to 
communicate with each other seamlessly and perform actions 
without human intervention.
The M2M system
The M2M system uses device (sensor, meter, etc.) to capture 
‘event’ (temperature, inventory level, etc.), relayed through 
a communication network (wireless, wired or hybrid) to an 
application (software program) that translates the captured 
event into meaningful information (E.g. items need to be 
restocked) that can be actioned subsequently.
M2M works on four basic principles:
•	 Acquiring data through sensors, RFID and related devices
•	 Transmitting the data through the network channel 
•	 Making decisions via intelligent application solutions
•	 Triggering an action, based on pre-determined rule-sets  
and analysed data.The M2M ecosystem
Telcos have taken the lead in building M2M networks that 
deliver granular device data to centralised applications that turn 
it into meaningful information. However, the M2M business is 
in its nascent stage and business models are evolving, driven by 
various value propositions for the players in the ecosystem. The 
four key categories in the M2M ecosystem are as follows:
•	 Hardware and semiconductor company : These provide 
the end-point devices from where data is acquired (sensors, 
GPS units, smart meters, RFID tags, video cameras, and 
smartcards).
•	 Communication service provider : These enable the 
transmission of data between machines.
•	 M2M service provider : These are vertical niche players 
providing specific M2M application solutions for data 
analysis for decision-making.
•	 System integrator:  This is the technical domain expertise 
to bind all systems together.
The roles of these players may overlap in various business 
models that will evolve depending on the positioning created by 
each individual player and specific market opportunities.
Application of M2M
M2M provides benefits to individuals, companies, communities 
and organisations in the public and private sectors across 
industries. Some of them are:We believe M2M has significant potential in India.  To illustrate 
some of them, we expand here on four areas, namely smart city, 
smart grid, agriculture and healthcare. 
Smart city
Smart city  is inclusive of terms such as digital city  or 
connected cities . Smart cities as an applied technology 
term often refers to a collection of various M2M services for 
electricity, water supply, waste management, traffic solutions 
and are referred to as, city basics.
It is estimated that every minute during the next 20 years, 30 
Indians will leave rural India for urban areas. At this rate, India 
could need about 500 new cities in the next two decades1. If 
there were ever a time to focus on developing solutions for 
sustainable cities, it is now. As population centres grow, they 
are placing greater demands on city infrastructure and vital 
services such as transportation, healthcare, education and 
public safety.
Replacing actual city infrastructure is often unrealistic in 
terms of cost and time. However, existing infrastructure 
can be infused with new intelligence. This means digitizing 
and connecting systems, so they can sense, analyse and 
integrate data, and respond intelligently to the needs of their 
jurisdictions.
How can a smarter city help?
A smart city is an environment that involves many technologies 
and multiple agents: from sensors scattered throughout the 
whole city (to collect any kind of data; traffic, water, energy, 
etc.) to the cellular devices owned by citizens. This data must  
be managed by a platform.
As per a recent PwC Connected Life report pre -
pared for the GSMA, traffic telematics could 
help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly two 
hours each of their time every week2. 
Estimates indicate that the economic benefits 
of the resulting increase in productivity could 
add more than 20 billion USD to the Chinese 
GDP each year3.
Source: PwC analysis
6       PwC M2M technologies          7Smart mobility
Issues How M2M could help
Vehicular growth due to rapid urbanisation:
•	 Road traffic conditions in India are getting worse. The 
average number of vehicles has grown at the rate of 10% 
annually, in the last five yrs 4.
•	 Vehicle penetration in metros such as Mumbai is suffering 
from about 590 vehicles per km of road 5.
•	 Research on traffic shows that India loses around 60,000 
crore INR (including fuel wastage) a year due to traffic 
congestion in urban centres and highways6.Intelligent transportation system : Road network monitoring 
to determine traffic density real time and recommend routes 
to reduce travel time and congestion. It allows users to identify 
the best route.
Smart parking : Real-time information about parking spots 
and notifications when restricted spots (loading bay, bus sta -
tions, disabled parking bay, etc.) occupied. People can locate 
free parking spots and their price through an intuitive graphi -
cal interface.
Fleet management : Solution that identifies the positions of all 
service operator vehicles real time. It produces reports to plan, 
save and improve.
Energy and environment
Issues How M2M could help
•	 Commercial buildings are the third largest consumers of 
energy in India after industry and agriculture. Buildings 
annually contribute to more than 20% of the electricity 
used in India7.
•	 Indian cities alone generate more than 100 million tonnes 
of solid waste a year. Indeed, forget the waste segregation 
and recycling directive of the Supreme Court, the 
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development 
estimates that up to 40% of municipal waste in India 
remains simply uncollected. 
•	 Water scarcity is fast becoming urban India’s crisis, with 
the government’s own data revealing that residents in  
22 out of 32 major cities have to deal with daily shortages. 
Delhi uses 36 million m3 of water per day. The New Delhi 
Jal Board supplies just over 30 million cubic metres per 
day, but only 17 million cubic metres actually reach 
consumers due to infrastructure problems, such as leaking 
pipes8.
•	 India is the largest groundwater user in the world, where 
an estimated 85% of drinking water is groundwater 
dependent. Millions of women and children spend 
several hours a day collecting water from distant sources 
of varying quality. Further, dysfunctional water supply 
systems have led to loss of investment caused by poor 
maintenance, limited financing and overall failure to 
address sustainability challenges in the field.Smart grid and smart meters:  Smart metering solutions in 
electricity, water and gas usage optimise energy efficiency 
through better insight on real-time consumption, losses and 
fraud. In India, smart grids can help increase efficiency of 
power grids where Transmission and Distribution losses are 
almost 30% of the total installed capacity9.
Smart buildings:  Solutions for centralised and remote 
management of buildings in each building can help them 
communicate with one another through a united command 
centre and manage individual building functions to reduce 
consumption of energy.
Waste management : Waste management solution to 
integrate data from containers (type, filling level, etc) and 
traffic information in the optimal route detection of the waste 
collection fleet. A GPS device is installed in almost the entire 
fleet of cleaning and waste collection vehicles. This makes it 
possible to optimise routes and save time and resources.
Watering management : By controlling gardens’ soil humidity 
with an M2M solution, irrigation can be planned according to 
needs, thus saving costs.
Low-cost M2M enabled water meters can enhance water pump 
monitoring and contribute to understanding user behaviour. 
Similarly, there could be a high demand for M2M solutions in 
sanitation and irrigation.Case studies
•	 Sarvajal10 (India) has developed business models on the 
use of M2M for clean water services. It uses a combination 
of GSM enabled remote monitoring systems and water 
ATMs to provide clean water services in India. Soochak 
controller enables remote monitoring and control of 
filtration operations. Water ATMs are managed via GSM 
and enable the use of stored value smart cards for water 
purchase. Their franchise business model ensures water 
production. Local distribution is managed centrally. As of 
November 2012, Sarvajal had 155 franchisees, impacting 
more than 85,000 lives.
•	 HT Media11 distributes daily newspapers to distribution 
centres across the country using contracted vehicles on pre-
determined routes, thus ensuring timely, safe and accurate 
delivery. M2M based services enable cost efficiencies for 
fleet operations. They help real-time monitoring of trucks 
and shipments. This helps streamline operations, minimise 
downtime and optimise asset performance. As per the PwC Connected Life report, reducing 
power theft and increasing usage efficiency via 
smart meters can save enough electricity in 
India to power more than ten million homes12.Smart grid
Smart grid enables efficient functioning by improving reliability 
and economics for production and distribution of electricity.
Technology that allows for two-way communication between 
the utility and its customers makes the grid smart. Smart grid 
consists of elements working together with the electrical grid to 
respond digitally to rapidly changing electric demand.
Issues How M2M could help
Demand and supply gap in the Indian power sector: With 
total installed power generation capacity of about 223 GW (as 
of April 2013), India is still struggling to meet increasing power 
demand. According to the Central Electrical Authority (CEA), 
the total generation shortfall during 2011-12 was 8.5% with 
demand touching 937,199 million units and generation lagging 
at 857,886 million units13. 
Western India witnessed the highest shortfall at 11.4% during 
2011-12. Southern India saw the largest demand-supply gap of 
15.5% during April 201214.M2M can help reduce power theft and increase usage 
efficiency via smart meters, thus saving enough electricity in 
India to reduce the demand-supply gap.
High transmission and distribution (T and D) loss: 
According to the CEA, total T and D loss in India during 2010-
11 was about 23.9% while aggregate technical and commercial 
(AT and C) loss is about 16.1%15. This includes both theft and 
technical losses. Further, for every 1 INR of power sold, the 
utilities are able to collect back only 80 paisa.  The rest is either 
not collected or is lost due to AT and C losses.
T and D losses are the main cause of mounting financial 
losses on state distribution utilities. According to a Planning 
Commission report, the reported AT and C loss of 28,853 INR 
crore for 20 states in the 10th Plan is underestimated as the 
actual AT and C losses are estimated to exceed 40,000 INR 
crore.16Smart grid represents an unprecedented opportunity to move 
the energy industry into a new era of reliability, availability 
and efficiency. Commercial losses become measurable, 
traceable, and reducible when using more sensors and meters 
in the power grid. Solutions such as capability of remote 
disconnection on non-payment by consumers, automatic 
alarms when the network is being encroached on or when 
people engage in theft, will enable utilities to stop pilferage 
and avoid unsafe situations and accidents. In addition, 
optimal asset utilisation can be planned with online data of 
overloading transformers and network, which can help reduce 
and prevent failures.
India’s power grid blackout17: On 31 July 2012, much of 
India’s electricity supply network collapsed in the country 
causing an estimated shortage of 32 GW, affecting more than 
680 million people; double the population of the US. It caused 
business losses estimated to run into the hundreds of millions 
of dollars. 
The power outage wreaked havoc on businesses and travellers. 
About 200 trains stopped operating for several hours. Metro 
rail services in the national capital of New Delhi and its 
suburbs were halted. About 270 miners were stuck in two 
underground coal mines in eastern India as elevators stopped 
working .When a power outage occurs, smart grids will be able to 
detect and isolate the outages, containing them before they 
become large scale blackouts. This will also help ensure that 
electricity recovery resumes quickly and strategically after an 
emergency. For instance, prioritising of routing electricity to 
emergency services.
8       PwC M2M technologies          9The R-APDRP18 (Restructured Accelerated Power 
Development and Reform Programme) was focused on 
establishing baseline data, fix accountability, strengthen 
and upgrade sub-transmission network and reduce AT and 
C losses up to 15%. Projects under the scheme involved 
base line establishment, IT applications for energy auditing, 
strengthening of sub-transmission and distribution projects.
•	 Automated meter reading (AMR):  AMR has become 
a necessity for effective energy management, energy 
accounting and to overcome the problems of manual 
reading. 
•	 Geographic information systems (GIS): This involves 
conducting GPS survey of consumer households, connected 
electrical feeders and distribution transformers. Consumers 
are then indexed and given a unique electrical address 
(CIN), making it possible to segregate them for energy 
audit and accounting purposes. The geo-referenced data is 
also mapped on satellite imagery of appropriate scale.
Agriculture
The agriculture sector plays a vital role in the development of 
India with over 60% of the country’s population deriving their 
subsistence from it. The total outlay of 4.01 billion USD has been 
proposed for the Ministry of Agriculture in the Union Budget 
2013-14, which is 22% more than the revised estimates of 2012-
1321.
Issues How M2M could help
Low irrigable land: As per a World Bank report, only 35% 
of the total agricultural land in India is irrigable . This in turn 
means dependencies on water pumps for irrigation. However, 
there is a significant demand and supply gap in the power sec -
tor in India leading to long hours of unscheduled power cuts 
and fluctuation.Remote-controlled water pump solutions: This can be used 
for automating the process of watering the crops through Zig -
Bee, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and related solutions as per availability 
of electricity.
No channel for local weather information: Lack of  facility 
for accurate and timely information on localised weather con -
ditions continues to be a challenge for the farmers. Weather monitoring systems: This can be used for agri-based 
industries where sensors wirelessly send data to a centralised 
server and management or respective stakeholders can take 
predictive measures for one’s business and needs.
Lack of storage space for food items:  India has more than 
20% of its population under poverty line, 54,000 crore INR 
worth of grains and farm produce is wasted every year which 
accounts for 13% of the GDP22. The reason behind such a huge 
wastage is non-availability of proper storage shelters. 	M2M-based food supply chain management (FSCM) : These 
systems can help curb this menace by collecting information 
about food stock and raising an alarm when the expiry date is 
nearing.Case studies
•	 Nano-Ganesh, Water Pump Control23 is a cellular-
based wireless remote control and alarm system for 
water pumps designed considering unfavourable 
irrigation conditions.  This counters routine problems 
like fluctuation in power supply, difficult terrain, fear 
of animals on way to pumps, hazardous locations 
of pumps, open wiring, shock hazards, rains etc. 
Also, in the rural water supply schemes, there is 
inadequate coordination between tank levels and the 
water source. All that Nano-Ganesh needs is a low 
cost wireless connectivity with voice transmission 
and Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) transmission 
available in most handsets.  
So far, 10,000 remote controllers are in use and 
have improved the livelihoods of 40,000 people 
with 1,000 rural technicians getting an additional 
source of income; 180,000 m3 of water, 1080 M.W. of 
electricity, 180 m3 of fuel and 18 m3 of soil was saved 
in the year 2010 by installing 2,000 Nano-Ganesh 
sets; 720,000 USD saved in labour costs in the year 
201024.
•	 Food Supply chain management (FSCM) using LTE 
network cum wireless sensor network25 solution is 
being developed by Nippon Electrical Company. 
FSCM consist of all activities in movement of food 
from producers to consumers like purchase, storage, 
transportation, distribution and processing. This 
helps in providing better management and tracking 
of food items, distribution at reasonable prices in 
controlled markets, better price controls in private 
markets and ensuring food security through better 
management for PDS and during disasters like 
droughts, etc. Some of its uses are: 
•	During transit, in case of theft Active Transport 
Tracking Device (ATTD) device would raise 
alarms to both the buyer and seller
•	Check weight periodically and thereby control 
leakage and pilferage
•	Detect and raise alarm when the food item expires
FSCM system with pesticides feature support sensor 
network would also help in pesticides control when it 
detects the weeds, fungus, bacteria and microorganism 
growth.	Case studies
•	 The UHBVN, Haryana19 pilot project covers 31,914 
consumers and 531 distribution transformers, 
for approximately 131.8 MU input energy 
consumption. The proposed project area is covered 
under the RAPDRP Scheme for IT implementation 
and system strengthening. The functionality of peak 
load management is proposed by implementing 
automated metering infrastructure (AMI) for 
residential consumers and industrial consumers.
•	 The CESC, Mysore20 project involves 21,824 
consumers (residential, commercial, industrial and 
agricultural) and 512 irrigation pumps sets covering 
over 14 feeders and 473 distribution transformers. 
Together, they account for input energy of 151.89 
MU. Peak load management (PLM) and outage 
management (OM) are proposed by implementing 
AMI and integration to distributed generation and 
micro grid integration. Other possibilities include 
functionalities such as agriculture demand side 
management (DSM) with community portal, 
consumer portal to support DSM and demand 
response (DR), employee portal for knowledge-
sharing and benefit realisation, KPI based MIS and 
data analytics for decision suppor t.

10       PwC M2M technologies          11Healthcare
The Indian healthcare industry, which comprises hospitals, 
medical infrastructure, medical devices, clinical trials, 
outsourcing, telemedicine, health insurance and medical 
equipment, is expected to reach an expenditure level of some 
160 billion USD  by 2017.29
Issues How M2M could help?
Lack of basic medical Infrastructure in rural areas:  The 
total hospital bed density in India had increased to 1.3 per 
1,000 by 2010, but remains significantly lower than the WHO 
guideline of 3.5 beds per 1,000.Underutilisation of existing 
resources further compounds the problem of miserable infra -
structure. The bed density in rural centres is even lower. 30Remote patient monitoring:  Patients are provided with 
wireless devices enabling them to monitor their vitals and 
conditions, for example blood pressure, diabetes, or cardiac 
problems. Measurements can be taken by patients manually or 
captured by sensors and sent automatically to doctors. It allows 
constant monitoring of health, early spotting of warnings, and 
rapid application of diagnosis. This can help increase reach of 
medical attention to rural centres.
Inadequate and underutilised health workforce: The total 
number of allopathic doctors and nurses in the country is less 
than WHO benchmark of 2.5 doctors per 1,000 populations, at 
2.2 per 1,000 people. Further, the available health work force 
is not utilised properly.Organisation of healthcare work : Cellular devices falling 
into this group streamline work of healthcare professionals 
while they are on the go or are working remotely. They allow 
scanning of patient monitoring equipment, update medical 
records and share information with medical staff.
Poorly maintained medical equipments and drugs: Most 
of the public health facilities have poorly maintained medical 
equipments and  poor medicine management process.Medical asset tracking solutions: This helps in tracking the 
location and condition of drugs and equipment for security 
and maintenance needs. It improves productivity with visibility 
of asset availability. As per the PwC Connected Life report:
•	Increased adoption of mHealth solutions could 
save over 1 million lives in Sub-Saharan Africa 
over the next five years26
•	mHealth solutions could help cut healthcare 
costs in OECD countries by over 400 billion USD 
in 201727
The use of cellular technologies for remote 
monitoring, disease management, and preventive 
medicine for the elderly could reduce Japan’s 
healthcare spend by 10 billion USD in 201728.M2M technology is widely considered as the ‘ next big thing’ , 
as it is forecasted that in coming years the number of devices 
with connectivity (or machine to machine connectivity) will 
outnumber human centric connections. However, the actual 
mainstream adoption has kicked in during the last few years. As 
per multiple research studies, M2M, a nascent industry sector 
until the last few years has embarked on its growth phase. 
It is widely acknowledged by industry leaders that M2M has 
huge growth potential. Although, there are many M2M service 
offerings in India, the actual growth will start within next few 
years. As per the Cyber Media research report (2012), India 
M2M modules (device) market generated 2732 million USD 
(134.9 crore INR) revenues in 2011 and is expected to generate 
to 82.6 million USD (413.3 crore INR) by 2015, growing at a 
CAGR of 32.3%33. 
M2M service expansion
Even though the growth potential for M2M is big, it is 
essentially a long tail business. In addition, long tail 
characteristics; the M2M average revenue per connection 
(ARPC) is typically only a fraction of human average revenue 
per user (ARPU), but the volumes are expected to compensate 
for the same. On the technology side, the cost of sensors and 
meters are expected to fall to levels that will spark widespread 
use. Efforts are on by governments and industry groups to work 
together to standardise networking interfaces and technologies 
and help evolve to the point where data can flow freely among 
sensors, computers, and actuators.
Consequently, in the recent past, M2M services uptake 
is picking up globally especially in sectors like security, 
automotive, transport and logistics, utilities, retail and financial 
services, etc. 
Case study
Screening for oral cancer, point-of-care support and 
diagnostics (mHealth) involves screening high-risk 
individuals for oral cancer using smartphones with 
camera. The condition is either diagnosed by using pre-
loaded software or by uploading data to the hospital’s 
electronic medical records (EMR) system for specialist 
feedback. Treatment is advised through interactive videos 
on phone or referred to a specialist.The open source telemedicine platform allows medical 
investigations to be encoded on to smartphones; it 
enables ECG, ultrasound and X-ray and CT-scanners, and 
also two-way sharing of medical data between a central 
medical record database and the phone, linking specialists 
with clinicians.313. Market potential

12       PwC M2M technologies          134. Key issues for M2M in India
Diverse technology standards
M2M services is based on various access technology standards 
due to the fact that each type of M2M services has different 
requirement for mobility, power consumption, range, ease of 
roll out etc. M2M services which do not require mobility and 
are concentrated in limited geography are based on wireless 
personal area networks (WPANs). This includes Bluetooth, 
ZigBee, 6LowPlan, etc. and proprietary standards like Z-Wave 
and ANT. On the other hand M2M services with requirement 
of mobility and wider range are based on wireless technology 
standards like 2G/3G, IMAX, Satellite, etc. 
Lack of guidelines for technology standards and protocols limit 
the benefits driven from uniformity and interoperability leading 
to complicated product lifecycle. For example, usage of propriety 
standard for smart grid potentially may lead to significant 
investment in inefficient legacy network. 
The critical link between the M2M network and the core 
enterprise systems is the API, a standards based interface that 
allows real time data exchange and its standardisation will 
pave the way for real time interfaces that are lightweight, high 
scale and continuously available. All these characteristics are 
fundamental for M2M communication.
Resale of telecommunication services by non telecom 
operator (M2M service provider)
There are various M2M services for which a third party M2M 
service provider may need to procure SIM or bandwidth from a 
telecommunications service provider. These third parties may 
thus interface into the TSP’s network. For example, providing 
smart grid managed services to a power distribution company 
which includes bundled services consisting of connectivity for 
the M2M devices. 
As per current licensing norms this would contravene clause of 
resale of the telecom services and needs to be reviewed in the 
context of the emerging M2M opportunity.
Scarcity of numbers
M2M devices require a numbering scheme to function on 
the network. These could be IP addresses or IMSI / MSISDN 
equivalent. Although essentially a data based service, in many 
cases voice and SMS services would also be used in M2M.
MSISDNs and IMSIs are scarce resources that may diminish due 
to large number of devices. Also, availability of IPv4 addresses is 
limited and may not be sufficient for M2M. However, there has 
been has been wider adoption of IPv6 address globally which 
has significantly larger series of address available. 
A standardised framework for addressing the M2M devices 
is needed to address issues around scalability, security and 
accountability.Identity management: Know your customer (KYC)
Telecommunications operators are required to follow stringent 
norms for subscriber identification. The existing KYC guidelines 
are based on the principle of traceability of the end user (human 
being). However, mostly for M2M services, the M2M device 
may not be directly related to a particular user (human being). 
For example, in fleet management services, although the device 
is provided by the logistics service provider (procured from 
telecommunications operator), the vehicle may also be owned 
by the driver. Furthermore, the following cases can make KYC 
even more complex:
•	 M2M equipment may change ownership. For example, a 
car fitted with M2M technology for security, tracking and 
performance monitoring would change ownership as and 
when the car ownership is changed.
•	 There could be numerous M2M devices deployed by a single 
user (at home and work). 
Also, as per current licence conditions, operators are not allowed 
to send SIM cards out of India without activation. However, 
in cases where the SIM card is required to be embedded in the 
product (consumer goods, vehicles, etc) during manufacture, 
such KYC guidelines may be affected. 
In this context, the KYC framework needs to be reviewed.
Data privacy and security
Considering the significant proliferation of M2M services in 
health, transport, electronics, power and energy and essentially 
every other sector, a large amount of information will be 
generated, transmitted and collated. Data privacy and security 
for both individuals and enterprises would be a major concern 
and potentially an impediment for larger uptake, in the absence 
of safeguards.
With advent of cloud computing and innovative service models 
such as infrastructure as service (IAAS) and platform as service 
(PaaS), a plethora of M2M applications and databases will be 
hosted on the cloud. For instance, one of the key issues to be 
noted for hosting of application on cloud is the fact that as per 
the existing telecom licensing guidelines, subscriber data cannot 
be taken outside India. However, in cloud computing many 
of the applications will be hosted on servers located outside 
India posing both a regulatory compliance challenge and a data 
security issue.
Hence data privacy and security issues will need to be addressed 
accordingly.Spectrum availability
Currently M2M services make extensive use of licenced and 
unlicenced spectrum bands. 
•	 For unlicenced spectrum, there is a pertinent question 
about adequacy of availability. This may happen if 
increased number of M2M devices utilise unlicenced 
spectrum, especially 2.4 GHz (globally harmonised) 
through wireless personal area networks (ZigBee, wi-fi, 
etc). Also the performance in these unlicenced bands 
would deteriorate significantly due to overcrowding of 
M2M devices. 
•	 For licenced spectrum, 2G and 3G spectrum band are 
preferred access medium for M2M devices. However, given 
the inherent scarcity of these spectrum bands along with 
longevity of M2M devices expected to last longer than the 
access technology changes.
Roaming
Considering the significance of some of the  M2M services  
(real-time health monitoring, security, etc), devices may be 
required to choose an alternative back-up network during 
downtime, persisting dark spot or while roaming. 
Hence, there may be need for a separate roaming agreement 
framework for M2M services which can be based on the special 
numbering scheme identified them. Intra circle roaming is 
another essential aspect.
Legal liabilities
M2M services in future may become very pervasive, which will 
make certain M2M services such as healthcare monitoring, 
intelligent driving system in automobiles, etc extremely critical 
Such M2M services can be vulnerable to service failure which 
may lead to the loss of life and money. Further, any breach of 
data privacy could also result in a legal liability for the service 
providers. 
In such cases, it is important to develop a clear framework to 
tackle liabilities.

14       PwC M2M technologies          15
Conclusion
The big growth potential of M2M businesses is beyond doubt as indicated in the various 
market researches. M2M has the potential to not only transform business for enterprises 
by bringing in efficiencies but can also touch millions of life through benefits derived 
through useful applications for medical diagnosis and treatment, cleaner water supply, 
improved irrigation, energy conservation, etc. 
Currently, M2M services have started growing in India and are driven mainly by 
enterprises looking for benefits of M2M in addition to the various initiatives driven by 
government. However, the actual growth will kick in following enabling regulations, 
falling cost of the overall M2M services and devices and innovative services for masses. 
The business models are currently driven by device centric M2M solution provided by 
niche M2M service providers. However, with the evolving new value proposition for other 
players like telecom operator and system integrator, new business models will evolve with 
the varying roles for each of the players.
Consensus and resolution on key issues related to technical standardisation and 
regulations by the government and industry groups will go a long way in unleashing the 
true potential of the M2M services.1. http://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/in/en/sustainable_cities/ideas/
2. PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years in Asia, 2013
3. PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years in Asia, 2013
4. http://www.nhai.org/roadnetwork.htm
5. http://www.neoncarrot.co.uk/h%20aboutindia/india-%20statistics%201.html
6. http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2012-05-31/india/31920307_1_toll-plazas-road-space-stoppage
7. http://www.pnnl.gov/main/publications/external/technical_reports/PNNL-19487.pdf
8. Running on Empty, Global Envision, July 2007,http://www.globalenvision.org/library/1/1685
9. http://www.enpreview.com/article.php?ItemId=228&CategoryId=18
10. Sustainable Energy & Water Access through M2M Connectivity by Michael Nique and Firas Arab 
11. Trimble transport & logistics http://210.210.24.107/TMT/case_studies.php 
12. PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years in Asia, 2013
13. www.cea.nic.in/reports/yearly/lgbr_report.pdf
14. http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/news-by-industry/energy/power/demand-supply-gap-between-power-
generation-demand-touched-8-2-in-april-according-to-cea/articleshow/13395891.cms
15. http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2013-09-13/news/42042045_1_power-plants-atc-losses-additional-power
16. http://www.electricalmonitor.com/PrintArticle.aspx?aid=1552&sid=2
17. “India’s Mass Power Failure Worst Ever in World History”Outlook. Press Trust of India.
18. Ministry of Power http://www.powermin.nic.in/distribution/apdrp/projects/pdf/Re_Structured_APDRP_during_XI_Plan.
pdf
19. http://indiasmartgrid.org/en/Lists/Projects/DispForm.aspx?ID=4&ContentTypeId=0x0100A66C1B8C23DC784C9B0360
5F187DD0C5
20. http://indiasmartgrid.org/en/Lists/Projects/DispForm.aspx?ID=4&ContentTypeId=0x0100A66C1B8C23DC784C9B0360
5F187DD0C5
21. http://www.ibef.org/industry/agriculture-india.aspx
22. www.sustainuance.com/think-before-you-throw/‎
23. http://www.Nano-Ganesh.com
24. http://defindia.net/files/2013/08/CaseStudy3-2C-NanoGanesh.pdf
25. www.gisfi.org/wg_documents/GISFI_IoT_20110672.doc‎
26. PwC-GSMA report: Connected Life - The impact of the Connected Life over the next five years, 2013
27. PwC-GSMA report: Connected Life - The impact of the Connected Life over the next five years, 2013
28. PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years in Asia, 2013
29. http://www.ibef.org/industry/healthcare-india.aspx
30. National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) Data
31. www.mhealthinfo.org 
32. 1 USD = 50 (assumption taken for comparison purpose)
33. http://cmrindia.com/india-wireless-machine-2-machine-modules-market-crosses-inr-130-crore-in-2011References
About ASSOCHAM
The knowledge architect of corporate India
Evolution of value creator
ASSOCHAM initiated its endeavour of value creation for Indian industry in 1920. Having in its fold more than 400 
chambers and trade associations, and serving more than 4,50,000 members from all over India, it has witnessed 
upswings as well as upheavals in the Indian economy, and has played a catalytic role in shaping the trade, commerce 
and industrial environment of the country. 
Today, ASSOCHAM has emerged as the fountainhead of knowledge for Indian industry, which is all set to redefine 
the dynamics of growth and development in the technology driven cyber age of the knowledge based economy. 
ASSOCHAM is seen as a forceful, proactive, forward-looking institution equipping itself to meet the aspirations of 
corporate India in the new world of business. It is working towards creating an environment conducive for India 
business to compete globally. 
ASSOCHAM derives its strength from its promoter chambers and other industry and regional chambers and 
associations spread all over the country.
Vision
Empower Indian enterprises by inculcating knowledge that will be the catalyst of growth in the barrierless 
technology driven global market and help them upscale, align and emerge as formidable players in their respective 
business segments.
Mission
As a representative organ of corporate India, ASSOCHAM articulates the genuine, legitimate needs and interests 
of its members. Its mission is to impact the policy and legislative environment so as to foster balanced economic, 
industrial and social development. We believe education, IT, BT, health, corporate social responsibility and 
environment to be the critical success factors.
Members: Our strength
ASSOCHAM represents the interests of more than 4,50,000 direct and indirect members across the country. Through 
its heterogeneous membership, ASSOCHAM combines the entrepreneurial spirit and business acumen of owners 
with management skills and expertise of professionals to set itself apart as a chamber with a difference.
Currently, ASSOCHAM has more than 100 national councils covering the entire gamut of economic activities
in India. It has been especially acknowledged as a significant voice of Indian industry in the field of corporate
social responsibility, environment and safety, HR and labour affairs, corporate governance, information technology, 
biotechnology, telecom, banking and finance, company law, corporate finance, economic and international affairs, 
mergers and acquisitions, tourism, civil aviation, infrastructure, energy and power, education, legal reforms, real 
estate and rural development, competency building and skill development to mention a few.
Insight into new business models
ASSOCHAM has been a significant contributory factor in the emergence of new-age Indian corporates, characterised 
by a new mindset and global ambition for dominating international business. The Chamber has addressed itself 
to key areas such as India as an investment destination, achieving international competitiveness, promoting 
international trade, corporate strategies for enhancing stakeholder value, government policies in sustaining India’s 
development, infrastructure development for enhancing India’s competitiveness, building Indian MNCs and the role 
of the financial sector as the catalyst for India’s transformation. ASSOCHAM derives its strengths from the following 
promoter chambers: Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mumbai; Cochin Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry, Cochin; Indian Merchant’s Chamber, Mumbai; Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chennai;  
PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi and has over 4 lakh direct and indirect members. Together,  
we can make a significant difference to the burden that our nation carries and bring in a bright, new tomorrow for 
our nation.About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with 
more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please 
see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
D. S. Rawat
Secretary General
email : d.s.rawat@assocham.com
The Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India
ASSOCHAM Corporate Office:
5, Sardar Patel Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi-110 021
Tel: 011-46550555 (Hunting Line)  Fax: 011-23017008, 23017009Ritesh Agrawal
Senior Manager - Telecom
Phone:+91 9886709583
Email: ritesh.a@in.pwc.com
Ashwani Kumar
Manager - Telecom
Phone:+91 9718111410
Email: ashwani.kumar@in.pwc.com
Mohammad Chowdhury
India Leader - Telecom
Phone:+91 9167665544
Email: mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.com

www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or 
for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 117 - November 2013 M2M.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
