Title: pwc_telecom-trends
Date Published: 2012-12-26 14:45:39+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_telecom-trends.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

PwC view
Five trends to watch in 
telecom during 2013 
www.pwc.in
Before we move to 2013, it’s worth revisiting 
our predictions for 2012. We find that we scored a tad higher than 3/5.  Here’s what we predicted and what actually happened...
The 5 trends PwC 
predicted for Indian 
telecoms in 2012Was PwC 
right?What do we think now?
#01Consolidation in the mobile 
service provider spaceThe number of players per circle reduced 
from a dozen-odd to 8-9, but there is a long way to go.
#02Data will drive new sources of  
revenue growthWe got it wrong here.  We expected  more momentum from the industry.  
The pressure is still on.
#03More consumers will start  
using tabletsTablet sales have risen dramatically in 
2012, but they are still at a low base
#04Cloud coverage for the  
enterprise marketMost enterprise segment service  
providers are working on cloud services.
#05Established players will start 
reinventing their operating 
modelsOperators have started work on  
areas such as acquisitions, retail and  distribution, but there is much to do.
The best-laid plans for the industry 
were punctured by the Supreme Court 
decisions of February, and so much of 
the agenda for 2012 is unfinished.  So for 2013, we could have been boring 
and chosen the same five trends again. 
However, in the long term, we believe further regulatory developments will 
open the way for reforms to gather more 
pace (with a few stumbles too). So we’ve  had a go at a fresh set of trends to look 
out for in 2013...
#01Slowdown in subscriber growth: growth is already down to 6 million 
subscribers per month, compared to 3 million a week two years ago. With rural 
network expansion still slow and disconnections increasing due to operators 
ridding their bases of dormant accounts, we expect a real slowdown in overall subscriber growth.
#02The network comes back to life: The next few years will be underlined by intense network planning, rollout and innovation. Every operator has spectrum 
challenges and opportunities, and most are looking for ways to manage scarce 
network resources to deliver better quality at lower cost. This is a long process, but 2013 will see the start of a new phase of activity.
#03Focus on return on capital: As headline revenue growth slows up, CFOs will knuckle down hard on departments to justify investments and expenditure, 
especially in the network, product development and IT. There will be a 
constructive tension between the need to contain costs and the desire to increase activity in new areas such as innovation.
#04Excite the customer: Data services disappointed us in 2012, and rather than predicting that 2013 will change all of that, we think operators will refocus 
their efforts on engaging customers through services and ‘experience’. So we’ll 
put our money on one niche service launching this year that may make an impact: mobile advertising, and on one operator opening an exciting retail store 
somewhere in Mumbai or Delhi.
#05Litigation, litigation: We do not believe that all of the regulatory decisions  
that will be taken in the next few months will be easily accepted. The industry 
will take positions, sometimes united and sometimes divided, on spectrum,  
re-farming and liberalisation.Telecom in 2013 
Our forecast
Mohammad Chowdhury
India Telecom Industry Leader
+91 22 6669 1560mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.comIf you would like to discuss our findings further,  
please contact our telecom leaders:
Sandeep Chaufla
India Telecom Tax Leader
+91 124 330 6506sandeep.chaufla@in.pwc.com
Avijit Mukerji
India Telecom Assurance Leader+91 124 4620 515avijit.mukerji@in.pwc.com
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any 
decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take. 
© 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 429  - December 2012 TelecomTrends.indd  
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
