Title: Income Tax Flyer_v1
Date Published: 2025-01-31 17:49:24+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_simplification-of-tax-law.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Key roadblocks and issues
Difficulty in simplifying provisions with a history of litigation 
(e.g. proceedings for reassessment, search and seizure, etc.) 
whilst retaining the essence and integrity of the provisions 
Balancing the interests of the revenue authorities and 
taxpayers while ensuring that settled positions are not 
unjustly overturned
Given the diverse nature of taxpayers, simplification by way 
of a one-size-fits-all approach may not be conducive. 
Possible unintended creation of additional loopholes by 
undertaking simplificationKey expectations from Budget 2025
Key tax expectations from Union Budget 2025 
Our perspectiveA bird’s eye view 
Overview of the existing 
Income-tax Act 
A simplified Income-tax Act is imperative for fostering a more 
transparent and efficient tax system. Simplification can 
significantly ease the burden of compliance on taxpayers by 
removing ambiguities in tax provisions and reducing the scope 
for disputes/varied interpretations. This shall facilitate greater 
compliance and reduced litigation, thereby promoting tax 
certainty for the taxpayer, and making the process of tax 
collection more efficient and less prone to errors or delays.”Comprehensive review of the Income-tax ActUnion Budget 2025
In the budget for FY 2024-25 , 
a comprehensive review of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
was proposed to make the law more concise and lucid, 
in order to reduce disputes. The review was proposed 
to be completed within six months. 
The Government had set up an internal committee to 
review the Act and the committee had invited 
suggestions for four categories: simplification of 
language, litigation reduction, compliance reduction, and 
redundant and obsolete provisions.1
Source PIB
1     https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2062861134 rules in 
the Income-tax 
Rules, 1962 298 sections in 
the Income-tax 
Act, 1961
More than 70 income 
tax forms14 schedules and 
23 chapters in the 
Income-tax Act, 1961Simplification 
of language 
Simplify language of the 
provisions relating to 
Significant Economic 
Presence, faceless  
assessment and appeals, 
with the objective of making 
the language simple and 
easy to understand.
Simplify provisions relating 
to valuation of perquisites, 
enhancement of 
thresholds/limits etc.Litigation reduction
Introduce a process of mediation 
(can be non-mandatory/ 
non-binding) at the time of 
assessment or the appellate stage 
to expedite fair resolution of cases.
Removal of 
obsolete provisions
Consider removal of provisions 
wherein the sunset clause has 
expired – e.g. deduction for 
investments in plant and machinery, 
especially in backward areas (32AC 
and 32AD), tax holiday benefits for 
newly set up Special Economic 
Zone units, provisions relating to 
capital gains tax exemptions which 
are no longer in force etc.Compliance reduction
Consider introducing a consolidated single master 
form system to replace the multiple event-based 
forms that are currently filed. This would ensure 
that taxpayers are not unnecessarily penalised if 
there is an unintended non-compliance merely due 
to the multitude of forms.
Facilitate real-time tracking and automatic update 
of tax deducted/collected at source, advance tax 
and self-assessment tax payments in income tax 
returns. 
Clarify or provide clear monetary thresholds for 
filing of returns by overseas entities claiming tax 
treaty benefits. 
Extend exemption from filing of returns to transfer 
pricing compliances as well as for transactions 
where taxes are withheld as per domestic tax law 
provisions.

