Title: India Pharma Inc.
Date Published: 2013-10-22 11:00:53-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_changing-landscape-of-the-indian-pharma-industry.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

India Pharma Inc. 
Changing landscape of the 
Indian pharma industry
www.pwc.in
Content  
Executive summary p4/Indian pharmaceutical market highlights 2013  p6/
Regulatory challenges  p8/Clinical research in India p10/Building a robust 
internal compliance programme  p12/The technology curve: Revamping the 
pharma industry  p14


Foreword
Welcome to the CII Pharma Summit 2013.
The Indian pharma market is currently valued at 72069 crore INR1. The 
market has experienced a slowdown this year with its growth going 
down to 9.8% from 16.6% in 20122. This slowdown can be attributed to 
the new drug pricing policy and the regulatory interventions over the last year. 
The Indian pharmaceutical industry is witnessing regulatory challenges 
like delays in clinical trial approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceutical pricing policy, a uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing.
In order to bounce back to a healthy growth rate in future, companies 
will have to rethink the way they do their businesses today. The government will have to play a great role in establishing a strong regulatory set-up as well as a speedy redressal for related issues.
Quality and regulatory concerns could also lead to greater US FDA 
scrutiny in future. Companies will have to step up their quality and manufacturing compliances in line with the global guidelines.
Companies will also have to think if their governance and compliance 
framework is robust and is updated with the constantly changing regulatory requirements.
They need to focus on using the new technologies to connect better 
with their key stakeholders like patients, healthcare providers, regulators, governments, payers and the society at large.
In this report, we look at the changing landscape of the industry, the 
regulatory hurdles and the emerging technologies that need to  be considered in order to achieve a sustainable and compliant long-term growth.
We hope this report presents an overview of industry issues and throws 
light on the industry potential so that the concerned stakeholders can see it better.
Sujay ShettyExecutive Director, India Pharmaceutical& Life Sciences Industry LeaderPwCDr Rajiv ModiChairman - CII Gujarat State Council andChairman - CII Pharma Summit 2013 and Chairman and Managing DirectorCadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
4 PwCExecutive summary
The Indian pharmaceutical market (IPM) is valued at  
72069 crore INR in 20133 as against 65654 crore INR in 20124. It 
has experienced a slowdown with its growth going down to 9.8% 
from 16.6% in 20125. There has been a slowdown in the growth 
of the top Indian as well as multinational companies (MNCs). However, the slowdown is more prominent in the MNCs than in the Indian companies. In 2012, the top five MNCs had grown at the rate of 16% which dropped down to 7% in 2013
6.
The contribution of chronic therapies to the IPM has gone up from 27% in 2010 to 30% in 2013
7. Chronic therapies (cardio, 
gastro, CNS and anti-diabetic) have outperformed the market for 
the past four years and are growing at a rate of 14%8, faster than 
the acute therapies (anti-infectives, respiratory, pain and gynaec) which grew at 9.6%
9. This essentially translated in an overall 
slowdown in 2013.
The number of new products launched has gone down from 
approximately 1900 in 2010 to approximately 1700 in 201210. 
Of all the new launches as of April 2013, the maximum were anti-infectives (468), pain- analgesics (435) and gastro (389) therapies
11.
The implementation of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Policy 2012 by the government of India has resulted in margins erosion from 20% and 10% to 16% and 8% for retailers and stockists respectively
12. This decrease in the stockist margins led 
to a significant uncertainty among many stockists regarding the feasibility of staying in business due to lower profitability post the margin reduction.
In addition to the growth challenges, the pharmaceutical industry 
is currently grappling with a number of issues like delays in clinical trial approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceutical pricing policy, a uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing, all of which need a speedy resolution. The industry is also facing stricter regulations on manufacturing and quality practices in the domestic as well as the international markets. 
India is perceived as an attractive destination for clinical trials. 
Concerns have been expressed about the approval of drugs without clinical trials, unethical practices in clinical trials and payment of compensation to patients or kin in the event of adverse events in clinical trials. The government of India has responded to these concerns by bringing in additional oversight mechanisms for clinical trials and notifying new rules for clinical trials. Approvals for clinical trials in India however have slowed down considerably. In addition, concerns have also been expressed by various stakeholders involved in the clinical research in India on some aspects of these regulations. The Indian government has agreed to consider some of these concerns. The government has also stated that it will consult the states and all other stakeholders to create a legal and regulatory framework for clinical trials in India.
Clinical trials are an inherent part of the drug development 
process and cannot be dispensed with. The continuing search for new therapies and cost-effective alternatives to existing therapies will be realised in practice only after comprehensive clinical trials. The clinical research industry in India needs to work closely with the government to create a regulatory mechanism that allows scientifically sound and ethically correct trials to be conducted so that the benefits of clinical trials can be brought to patients in India.   

India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     5Another critical concern for the pharmaceutical and  
life sciences companies is to create a compliance programme that encapsulates the local as well as the global regulations guiding operations and practices of the pharmaceutical and life sciences industry. Focussing on the Medical Council of India’s code (MCI), the draft Uniform Code for Pharmaceutical Marketing Practices (UCPMP) and the Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI) code, as applicable can help companies fix the loopholes in their current compliance programmes and make it more robust.
Further, emerging technologies called SMAC: social networking, 
mobile computing, analytics and cloud computing, are likely to play a crucial role in addressing these challenges, improving operational efficiencies and amplifying the performance of the pharmaceuticals companies.
Though each of these technologies has a unique impact, they also 
complement each other in order to drive business transformation. These technologies jointly foster innovation through new ways of product development, customer service and interaction and partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success.
India has had an efficient pharmaceutical industry which has 
been making affordable drugs not just for the Indian markets but has also been exporting them to the world but off late, been facing rising FDA scrutiny for quality. US FDA has increased its scrutiny on the quality coming from India located manufacturing plants. Indian companies will have to raise their compliance to US FDA regulations as they drive their major share of exports from the US market. Addressing the challenges in a holistic way will strengthen the sector which constitutes a major part of the Indian economy. Pharma companies will have to think through suitable strategies to mitigate the risk emanating from the above discussed challenges and to sustain growth in the next decade.
SMAC technologies
Social  
networkingCloud  
computingMobile  
computingAnalytics
6 PwCIndian pharmaceutical 
market highlights 2013
Market value and growth scenario 
The IPM is valued at 72069 crore INR in 201313 as against  
65654 crore INR in 201214 with an incremental value of  
6416 crore INR, which is down from the 9363 crore INR for  2011-
201215. The IPM has experienced a slowdown this year with its 
growth at going down to 9.8%  from 16.6% in 201216. From 2010 
to 2012, the IPM had a CAGR of approximately 15%17.
The IPM growth rate has declined after November 2012 from an average of 16% to 8%
18. This slowdown can be attributed to the 
following:
•	 The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Policy (NPPP) being 
announced towards the end of 2012
•	 Higher growths for the corresponding quarters and months 
in the previous year
•	 The NPPP implementation and the subsequent price 
corrections leading to a low uptake among the stockists in Q2 
of 2013
Key therapy areas
The top 10 therapy areas of the IPM contribute to approximately 90% of the IPM sales
19. 
Chronic therapies (cardio, gastro, CNS  and anti-diabetic) have been outperforming the market for the past four years and have 
grown at a rate of 14%
20, faster than acute therapies (anti-
infectives, respiratory, pain and gynaec) which grew at 9.6%21. 
This is what effectively resulted in an overall slowdown in 2013. 
The contribution of chronic therapies to the IPM has gone up 
from 27% in 2010 to 30% in 201322.
Therapy2010  
contribution %2013  contribution %2013  growth
Acute 73% 70% 9.6%
Chronic 27% 30% 14.0%Company performance
The top 10 companies contributed to 41% of total IPM sales up 
from 39% in 201023. These companies had a collective growth of 
9% (lower than the IPM) 24. Companies that ranked from 11 to 
20 contributed to 22% of IPM sales and had a cumulative growth of 12% (higher than the IPM)
 25. The remaining companies 
contributed to 37% of the IPM sales with a growth rate of 9%26.
Growth trends in Indian companies and MNCs 
There has been a slowdown in the growth of the top Indian as well as multinational companies. However, the slowdown is more prominent in the MNCs than in the Indian companies. In 2012, 
the top five MNCs had a growth rate of 16% which dropped down 
to 7% in 2013
27. Similarly, in 2012, the top five Indian companies 
had a growth rate of 16% that dropped down to 12% in 201328.
  Growth 
2012Growth 2013Inc value 2012Inc value 2013MNC Top five 16% 7% 1649 880
Top 10 16% 8% 1952 1097Indian Top five 16% 12% 1521 1361
Top 10 18% 13% 2678 2374
Brand performance
The top 100 brands in the IPM cumulatively contributed to 
approximately 18%29 of the total market value with a growth rate 
of approximately 11%30.  This value has marginally gone up from 
17% in 201031. Of the top 100 brands, 44 brands were more than 
100 crore INR in value32. Indian companies and the MNCs had an 
equal share in the top 100 with 50 products each33. 76 of the top 
100 products were acute therapy products while 24 were chronic therapy products
34. In terms of therapy, there were 21 anti-
infective products, 12 gastro, 11 anti-diabetic, 10 respiratory and nine cardiac therapies
35.
New introductions
Contribution of the new introductions (NIs) to the IPM has gone down from 6.3% in 2010 to 4.1% in 2013
36. The number of new 
products launched has gone down from approximately 1900 in 2010 to approximately 1700 in 2012
37. Of all the new launches 
as of MAT Apr 2013, the maximum were in anti-infectives (468), pain- analgesics (435) and gastro (389) therapies
38. The average 
value per NI was 0.89 crore INR for the overall market and was the highest for vaccines (4.32 crore INR)
 39.IPM Contribution 2013
Top 10, growth rate-Next 10, growth rate-Others, growth rate-
37%41%22%9%
9%22%
India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     7Town-class penetration
Increased access to healthcare, improved infrastructure and 
greater penetration of pharma companies into extra urban regions has led to an enhanced contribution and a higher growth 
from lower town classes in the IPM. Urban regions (metros and 
Class I) contribute to approximately 60%
40 of the IPM sales while 
the extra-urban regions (Class II to VI towns and rural) contribute to approximately 40%
41. Growth is driven mainly by the Class I 
towns (10%) and rural areas (14.5%).42 
Town-class contribution to IPM and growth
Town-class % to IPM Growth
Metros 30% 8%
Class I towns 31% 10%
Class II - VI towns 19% 10%
Rural 20% 14%
Other trends in 2012 – 2013
Implementation of NPPP  by the government
This resulted in the margins of all products that came under the 
purview of the NPPP drop from 20% and 10% to 16% and 8% for the retailers and the stockists respectively
43. 
This decrease in stockist margins led to a significant uncertainty among many stockists regarding the feasibility of staying in business due to the lower profitability post the margin reduction.
Increase in adoption to MCI guidelines
More companies were seen adopting the MCI guidelines for the 
promotion of products to doctors and changes being made to the sales and marketing strategies across the industry.
Focus on improving sales force productivity
Companies have focused on increasing the productivity of their 
field forces with an aim of optimisation, re-deploying in high potential territories, implementing robust processes and using technology to monitor the performances on regular basis, thereby trying to bring in enhanced efficiency in the overall sales force. 
Alliances and partnerships
Another trend seen in the market was the partnerships between 
the multinational and Indian companies with an aim of increasing the reach in terms of the number of customers and geographical coverage for patented molecules. These were seen in the form of 
co-marketing, co-promotion, licensing and joint ventures.The Indian pharma industry is experiencing a slow growth 
currently due to the new pricing policy and other regulatory challenges.  However, making a slight change in the way they 
are doing business today can negate the impact in the long run. 
Henceforth, both the Indian and foreign companies operating in India will have to device suitable strategies in order to be in the top 10 global markets by 2020.
Some of these strategies can be 
portfolio optimisation
expansion into newer markets
improving sales force productivity
including newer technology 
building a robust internal compliance programme

8 PwCRegulatory challenges
The Pharma regulatory environment across the world is getting 
more stringent. In order to compete in the global market, the Indian pharma market needs a strong regulatory set-up. But, the 
sector is currently grappling with a number of issues like delays 
in clinical trial approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceutical pricing policy, a uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing all of which need 
immediate attention. 
Clinical trials
Safety and effectiveness of the medicines has to be established 
before regulatory approval is granted for new drugs. Clinical trials are the gold standard processes which determine the safety 
and effectiveness of these drugs. Clinical trials are also needed 
for the Indian pharmaceutical industry to develop cost effective therapies for diseases like tuberculosis, diarrheal diseases, malaria, leishmaniasis, and meningitis which affect India and 
the other developing countries and to capitalise on opportunities 
provided by bio-similars. 
India also has aspirations of becoming a knowledge hub for 
Pharma. R&D in general and clinical trials in particular are an important aspect of this aspiration.
India has been considered as an attractive destination for 
conducting such clinical trials. This is mainly due to India’s genetic diversity; increasing and varied disease prevalence rates; availability of medical, pharmacy and science graduates, clinical 
infrastructure and comparative cost advantage. 
However, the regulatory delays in the clinical trials are adversely 
affecting this possibility. 
The delays and regulatory uncertainty have severely derailed 
the innovation curve as well as the growth of the clinical trial 
industry. Ineffective regulatory oversight, need for safeguards for 
informed consent for vulnerable populations and compensation guidelines for patients for trial related deaths  have emerged as major concerns. In terms of the clinical trials, where India could 
have been a leader, the country is losing out on opportunities 
because of the mentioned limitations. 
The FDI policy
Hundred percent FDI through the automatic route was possible in the Pharma sector in India. Given the high current account deficit, India requires FDI. The FDI policy, however, gives 
confusing signals. 100% FDI in greenfield investments is allowed 
by the automatic route but after November 2011, the brownfield investments require the approval of the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) which often comes with conditions
44. 
The time consumed in this process also acts a deterrent. 
FIPB conditions include the need to maintain production levels 
for the NLEM at the highest level for three years preceding the 
FDI, the need to maintain R&D expenses at the highest level for three years preceding FDI, the need for information on the transfer of technology to the administrative ministries and FIPB 
etc. The intention behind such restrictions may be good but it 
discourages investment. We need a FDI policy which addresses these concerns while ensuring the affordability as well as the availability of drugs in India National Pharmaceutical Pricing Policy 
(NPPP)
Pharmaceutical price controls are seen all over the world. 
Through NPPP 2012, the government has enhanced the scope of the Drugs Price Control Order (DPCO) to include all the drugs in the NLEM
45. Combination drugs in which one of the drugs is 
a part of the NLEM were also brought under the ambit of DPCO. The government also changed the formula to arrive at the ceiling 
price from a cost based method to a market based method. 
The Pharma companies are feeling the effects of the price controls 
associated with NPPP which will have a negative impact on their topline in short term. However, with well thought out strategies, 
a large part of this impact can be negated in the medium to long 
term. While companies have accepted the reality of price controls, one issue which has adversely affected the industry is the timeline for the implementation of DPCO. The industry felt that the 
government did not provide sufficient time for implementing the 
new packaging and labeling with the revised prices. There was also lack of clarity about the location where such packaging and labelling activities could be performed. Some companies had to 
go to court to get an extension and the ones who couldn’t do so 
in time are still suffering. This confusion could have been easily avoided through consultation and by giving adequate time for the implementation of the revised prices.
Uniform code on sales and marketing
In an attempt to streamline the marketing efforts, the Department of Pharma (DoP) has issued guidelines on a uniform code on sales and marketing practices which are applicable to the 
pharmaceutical companies. This is a laudable step aimed at 
preventing corruption. The DoP guidelines however, are different from the MCI guidelines on the sales and marketing practices. Tax authorities use the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) 
circular based on MCI guidelines to decide on permissible sales 
and marketing expenses. Because of differing standards between the DoP and MCI guidelines, there is an increased need for clarity both from the point of view of the industry as well as the tax authorities. 
India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     9
Compulsory licensing
In countries like India, there should be a balance between 
the need for affordability of drugs and intellectual property (IP) protection. The intention of the government to ensure 
the availability of patented medicines at a reasonable price is 
noble but there are other ways of achieving the same goal. The indiscriminate use of compulsory licensing will undermine both the Indian as well as foreign pharmaceutical companies. 
The industry is also facing stricter regulations on manufacturing 
and quality practices in the domestic as well as international markets. 
Manufacturing quality
India is the biggest supplier of medicines to the US and according to the industry sources, pharmaceutical exports from India to the 
US rose nearly 32 % last year to 4.23 billion USD. With increase in 
exports, Indian companies are drawing greater FDA scrutiny for quality and manufacturing compliances. 
For India to continue exporting to the foreign markets companies
will have to step up their quality and manufacturing compliance
programmes which are in line with the US FDA regulations. Increasing confidence in the drugs manufactured in India is important. The regulators need to set the standards at par with 
the global ones through appropriate legislation. They also have  
to ensure that these standards are effectively enforced and complied with.
India has an efficient pharmaceutical industry which has been 
making affordable drugs not just for the Indian market but has 
also been exporting them to the world. Addressing the above 
challenges in a holistic manner will strengthen the sector which constitutes a major part of the Indian economy. Pharma companies will have to devise suitable strategies to mitigate 
the risk emanating from the above discussed challenges for a 
sustainable and compliant growth over the next decade.
10 PwCClinical research  
in India
Randomised clinical trials are the gold standard process by which 
the safety and efficacy of experimental drugs is evaluated. Data submitted by the pharma companies is analysed and evaluated by 
regulators before drugs are approved for use. In addition, clinical 
trials are also required for post market surveillance of drugs.
India is perceived as an ideal destination for clinical trials. A large 
scientific workforce well versed in the English language, a diverse 
pool of patients in need of treatment and cost arbitrage were seen 
as drivers for clinical research in India. In 2005, the government of India amended the Drugs and Cosmetics Act allowing clinical trials to be held simultaneously with other countries without a phase lag. The number of clinical trials in India rose to a high of 
529 in 2010
46
The growth in the number of clinical trials however was not 
accompanied by a similar growth in the regulatory oversight of trials. The main concerns regarding clinical trials in India are  
as follows:
Approval for drugs without trials
The government of India’s Parliamentary Standing Committee on 
Health in its 59th report submitted in May 2012 has observed that 38 drugs have been introduced in India without clinical trials
47. 
This committee has called for strengthening the regulatory mechanism for clinical trials. 
Unethical practices  
There have been reports about the use of vulnerable population groups in clinical trials. Lapses have been reported in the informed consent process. Concern has also been voiced about 
under-reporting of adverse events and delays in reporting adverse 
events in clinical trials. 
Compensation for adverse events
The government of India has reported that there have been 2868 deaths during clinical trials in the period 2005-2012
48. It has 
also reported that there were 89 deaths which were related to clinical trials out of which compensation had been paid in 82 
cases
49. Health activists and civil society groups have emphasised 
the need for payment of an adequate compensation to patient 
or kin because of injuries or death related to clinical trial. The 
need for timely payment of agreed compensation has also been 
highlighted by these groups. 
Responding to these concerns, the government has introduced a 
slew of measures:
• Registration of all clinical trials in India has been made 
mandatory. 
• Twelve National Drug Advisory Committees comprising 
eminent experts in different medical specialities were set up in 
2012, to oversee approvals for clinical trials. 
• In January 2013, after observations by the Supreme Court, Government of India introduced two additional committees: the Technical Committee under the leadership of the Director 
General of Health Services and the Apex Committee under the 
Secretary of Health and Family Welfare to supervise approvals for clinical trials in India.• The government has made registration of independent ethics committees mandatory. 
• The Drugs and Cosmetics Act has been amended to define 
adverse events related to clinical trials. 
• Timelines have been defined for the reporting of adverse 
events.
• The government also introduced regulations for the computing and payment of compensation to patients or their 
kin for adverse events.
• It has also instructed the supervision of clinical trial sites 
by regional offices of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO).
The clinical research industry in India and the academic research community have welcomed the government’s initiatives to regulate clinical trials in India. They have however expressed concerns with some aspects of the regulations. 

India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     11Delays in approvals 
The additional committees created by the government in 
January 2013 add to the delays in approvals. This delay is forcing companies to rethink their plans for conducting clinical trials 
in India. Some have indicated that they may be forced to move 
clinical trials out of India. Research institutes such as National Institutes of Health (NIH) USA have also suspended 40 ongoing clinical trials in India.
Compensation in the event of adverse events
Section 122 DAB of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act as amended by the government of India in January 2013 states that “in the case of an injury occurring to a clinical trial participant, he 
or she will be given free medical management for as long as 
required”
50. Medical management of patients should be required 
only in the event of a clinical trial related injury. Promising medical management to all clinical trial participants may also 
be construed as an inducement to patients and thus needs to be 
reviewed.The definition of a clinical trial related event includes failure of investigational product to provide intended therapeutic effect
51. 
The very purpose of conducting clinical trials is to assess whether the investigational product will produce the intended benefit and 
failure to produce the intended benefit cannot be construed as a 
clinical trial related event.
The definition of a clinical trial related event also includes use of 
a placebo in a placebo controlled trial. Here again, mere inclusion 
of a patient in the placebo arm cannot be a basis for payment of 
compensation since such patients do receive the current standard of care
The government of India in its affidavit before the Supreme Court 
has said that it will look into some of these concerns
52. It has also 
appointed a committee under the chairmanship of Dr Ranjit Roy Chaudhury to formulate guidelines for conducting clinical trials 
in India. This committee has submitted its report in August 2013 
and this report is now under the consideration of the government. The government has also stated that it will consult the states and all other stakeholders to create a legal and regulatory framework 
for clinical trials in India.
Clinical trials are an inherent part of the drug development 
process and cannot be dispensed with. The continuing search for new therapies and cost-effective alternatives to existing therapies will be realised in practice only after comprehensive clinical trials. 
The clinical research industry in India needs to work closely with 
the government to create a regulatory mechanism that allows scientifically sound and ethically correct trials to be conducted so that the benefits of clinical trials can be brought to patients in 
India. 

12 PwCBuilding a robust 
internal compliance programme
Scientific and technology innovations, a rising demand for 
quality and lifesaving medicines, trade liberalisation and socio-demographic changes paint a success story for the 
pharmaceutical and life sciences sector worldwide. These 
factors open more avenues for innovation and profitability for the industry
53. However, the future of the industry will be made 
or marred not only by the obvious success factors but also by a critical consideration of compliance and governance matters. 
Companies operating in India and outside have to be aware of 
and comply with a nexus of local and global regulations guiding the operations and practices of the pharma and life sciences industry. 
A World Bank research in 2007 indicated that lack of 
transparency in decision-making coupled with lack of accountability of such decisions created several opportunities  for corrupt practices and led to governance breakdown
54. 
Marketing and promotional activities between the pharmaceutical industry and healthcare professionals are under 
the strict scanner of global regulators. As such, compliance and 
governance has taken centrestage in the boardroom of pharma and life sciences companies.
Regulatory focus and challenges in India
In various parts of the world, the relationship between the pharma industry and the medical profession has been a controversial one. In the current economic environment, where 
both the top and bottom lines of pharma and life sciences 
companies are under immense pressure, companies more often than not resort to aggressive sales strategies to woo medical professionals through gifts and hospitality.  
High-profile corruption crackdown cases and proactive internal 
investigations conducted by companies have brought to the fore certain significant ethical dilemmas for pharma and life sciences companies. Activities including but not limited to lavish gifts, sponsorship of holidays under the pretext of medical 
conferences, free samples, etc. have raised concerns and 
resulted in the introduction of various laws and guidelines that aim to govern the ethical conduct by medical professionals as well as pharma and life sciences companies in India.
The main regulations relevant for medical professionals and pharma companies in India are as follows:
• Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 is a central statute 
that applies to all of India and intends to curb bribery and 
corruption in the context of civil servants of the central and state governments.
• The Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette 
and Ethics) Regulations 2002, (MCI Code) issued under the 
Medical Council of India Act, 1956 (including subsequent amendments) prescribes standards for the medical profession in India. Amendment notification dated 10 December 2009, specifically prohibits medical practitioners and their 
professional associations from accepting any gift, travel 
facility, hospitality, cash or monetary grant from pharma and life sciences companies. In addition, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CDBT) issued a circular  in 2012 stating 
that it would disallow expenses incurred by pharma and life 
sciences sector businesses in providing freebies to medical professionals and treat the value of freebies enjoyed by the medical professionals and their professional associations as 
their taxable income
55.
• The Draft Uniform Code for Pharmaceutical Marketing 
Practices (Draft UCPMP) is currently pending finalisation by the Department of Pharmaceuticals under the Ministry 
of Chemicals and Fertilisers. This voluntary code relates to 
the promotion of pharma products and interactions between healthcare professionals and the pharma industry. The Department of Pharmaceuticals has indicated that while they 
would like pharma companies to adopt this code voluntarily, 
India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     13
they will consider enacting a law if voluntary adherence 
is ineffective. In line with the MCI Code, the current Draft UCPMP also prohibits pharma companies from extending 
freebies to healthcare professionals or their families.  
• OPPI Code of Pharmaceutical Practices, 2012 was introduced 
by the Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India and is based on the code of the International Federation 
of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations. It 
was introduced for the member companies of the OPPI to govern ethical conduct and promotional activities. The OPPI Code, among other things, prohibits freebies to healthcare professionals. In addition, it provides guidance on (i) 
appropriate venues for meetings and events i.e. conducive 
to the scientific or educational objectives and the purpose of such events and meetings; (ii) engaging healthcare professionals in advisory capacities (for example consultants,  
advisors, etc.); and (iii) prohibition of promotional aids  
and brand reminders.
Robust internal compliance programme
In this environment, following are some critical questions  to consider: 
• Is your governance and compliance framework robust and 
updated with changing regulatory requirements?
• Are all dealings with healthcare professionals as well as 
government and regulatory agencies conducted in the most transparent and ethical manner?• Do you really know who your third-party and business agents are? What would happen if you associate yourself with a 
third party whose ethical standards are not consistent with 
your company values?
• In the race to optimise profits, have you compromised any aspect of compliance or controls? 
• Do you have adequate controls over your contract manufacturing facilities? 
• Are you aware of the business practices adopted by your  CFA, stockist or distributor? Are they in line with your compliance standards?
• Do you believe your company has adequate financial  controls to mitigate the risk of potentially inappropriate conduct by employees? 
A critical consideration for pharma and life sciences companies 
is to create a compliance programme that encapsulates local 
and global regulations guiding the operations and practices of the industry. Focussing on the MCI Code, Draft UCPMP and OPPI Code to the extent applicable can help companies close 
loopholes in their current compliance programme and make it 
more robust.
14 PwCThe technology 
curve: Revamping the pharma industry
Globally, businesses are facing radical changes within current 
economic and market structures. Major scientific, technological and socioeconomic changes promise to revive the industry’s 
fortunes in another decade. However, capitalising on these 
trends will require crucial decisions. 
Despite a high demand for pharma products, there exists 
pressure to deliver effective treatment at lower costs. 
Healthcare reform and regulatory requirements are changing 
the realities of the marketplace. This is affecting the entire value chain from product development to healthcare delivery and payer reimbursement. The industry’s current business model based on the development and marketing of blockbuster drugs, 
can no longer meet stakeholder expectations. In order to remain 
competitive, pharma companies will have to innovate around their products as well as services in a cost-effective manner.
Specifically, we see the convergence of four key technologies 
to drive innovation; social networking, mobile computing, 
analytics and cloud computing (SMAC). Though each of these technologies has its unique impact, they also complement each other in order to drive business transformation. Social media defines ‘who we work with’ and enables collaboration and 
communication with employees as well as customers. Mobile 
devices create a platform ‘where we work’ providing anytime, anywhere access to applications stored within the cloud and other data sources. Analytics identifies ‘what we work on’ and 
helps us make actionable sense of data. Cloud enables ‘how 
we do the work’ and contains information and applications. These technologies, jointly foster innovation through new ways of product development, customer service and interaction, partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success. 
A look at the value chain of pharma companies provides a 
glimpse in the applicability of SMAC. A typical pharma value chain consists of the following: 
Pharma value chain
Support activities: human resource management, financial management, procurement, IT, etc.
India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     15We believe that emerging technologies are likely to play a crucial 
role in addressing these challenges, improving operational efficiencies and amplifying the performance of pharma and 
life sciences companies. Organisations that continually adopt 
technology, master it and drive business integration are likely to have a sustainable advantage over their peers in the market. In PwC’s 16th Annual Global CEO Survey, pharma and life sciences 
CEOs have indicated improving operational effectiveness, 
focussing on R&D and innovation and implementing new technology as top investment priorities over the next 12 months
56. 
The drug related R&D stage is highly complex, critical and resource-intensive. Investments have no guarantee of return 
due to uncertainty of a drug being approved at the end of the 
process. Drug research and clinical analysis during pre-clinical or clinical trials generate huge amount of data. For example, sequencing of a genome can generate petabytes of data, which 
are too unstructured for analysis using traditional relational data 
analysis tools and techniques. Storing this data in the traditional on-premise model can result in high initial costs, IT utilisation and procurement challenges. 
Leading organisations are realising that cloud computing is 
much more than a mere sophisticated IT solution. It is in fact, an 
optimal business solution. Pharma companies can leverage cloud computing and big data analytics to save cost and reduce time to generate competitive advantage in the market.  High memory 
compute capacity is available on-demand at prices as low as  
1 USD per hour.  Cloud based elastic compute capacity and low-cost storage solutions combined with the processing power of big data analytics. Technologies such as Hadoop can result in significant cost advantages and improved operational efficiencies 
during the R&D phase.  The whole process is likely to change 
radically in  the future.
An alternative measure of success is indicated by a company 
focussing on its core activities. Companies are realising this and 
hence there is a growing trend of increased reliance on third parties or joint working ie a shift towards a ‘networked pharma’ model to drive productivity and efficiencies. This poses an opportunity for pharma and life sciences companies to adopt the 
software-as-a-service (SaaS) based model for functions areas 
such as manufacturing, sales and marketing, finance, human resource, etc. SaaS based solutions for enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), 
laboratory information management, sales force automation, 
human resource management (HRM), payroll and financial management, warehouse management, etc have the potential  to eliminate upfront investments (i.e. capital expenditures, capex) in fixed components such as IT infrastructure and  
convert the entire IT cost into a variable cost or operational 
expenditure (opex). Consumers today are more willing to provide inputs and  feedback for products and services. This presents an opportunity to cost-effectively crowdsource ideas and encourages evolution of 
solutions. According to the PwC 16th Annual Global CEO Survey, 
94% of pharma and life sciences CEOs said that customers and clients influence their business strategy and 77% of them are strengthening efforts to engage customers and clients. For some, 
that means finding new ways to reach out to patients, such as 
engaging them directly to better understand how their medicines work in real-life settings. Holistic social media strategies can accelerate innovation by tapping into the thought process of a much larger stakeholder group. Additionally, effective utilisation 
of social media tools for internal collaboration can result in 
effective communication and knowledge flow across  the organisation. 
Proliferation of mobile devices (mobile phones, tablets and 
myriad other devices that have built-in smart features to sense 
and respond like sensors, biometric devices, etc) provides enterprises with a new platform to engage and interact with their customers as well as employees. These devices are not mere tools for accessing applications, but are drivers of innovation as 
they can create an ecosystem that can transform the customer 
and employee experience. Pharma companies can leverage these devices in order to differentiate and create a competitive advantage in a rapidly shifting market. Analytics combined with 
a comprehensive social media and enterprise mobility strategy is 
likely to emerge as a critical competitive requirement for pharma companies in order to innovate, improve customer service, enhance employee engagement and reduce costs.
While it is pertinent that SMAC will drive operational efficiency, 
reduced costs and foster innovation, even the best of technologies 
cannot deliver success without a structured and well-defined strategy.
Pharma companies will have to make the following key considerations before investing in SMAC:
• Conduct a detailed assessment of its business and 
technical landscape to identify opportunities for 
SMAC adoption.
• Formulate a business case for SMAC adoption by 
clearly articulating business and commercial value 
and defining success criteria.
• Identify statutory and regulatory compliance requirements and required controls to address existing issues. 
• Design the optimum solution, or evaluate multiple solutions or services available in the market to determine solutions or services best suited to specific requirements.
• Conduct proof-of-concept and validate against defined success criteria before implementation. 
16 PwC
Conclusion 
The economic environment in India is tougher now than 
ever before. While pharma companies focus their attention on measures to combat the growth slowdown, they will 
need to work with the government and other stakeholders 
to discuss and resolve regulatory challenges. Resolving the impasse with clinical trials will help companies continue with R&D which is central to their growth strategies. 
With numerous companies operating in multiple 
jurisdictions, the pharma and life sciences industry is one of the most heavily regulated in the world. Not surprisingly, the burden of successfully managing complex rules and regulations is a major issue facing the C-suite 
of pharma and life sciences companies worldwide. 
Instituting compliance programmes catering to regulatory requirements is not enough in today’s volatile market where reputation is at stake. Companies need to take a 360-degree 
approach for their compliance programmes encapsulating 
not only compliance with regulatory requirements but also their internal code of conduct and ethics code. A compliant pharma or life sciences company with a strong tone at the top will gain better competitive advantage in this economic 
environment in the long run.
IT and emerging technologies such as SMAC present 
opportunities for pharma companies to engage with external stakeholders such as patients, healthcare providers 
and governments to develop products and services 
designed to make the goal of health for all a reality.
India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry     17
References Acknowledgement
1-43 AIOCD AWACS Market Intelligence Report 2013 (MAT 
June 2013 Dataset) & PwC analysis
44 Foreign Investment Promotion Board (www.fipbindia.com)
45 National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (www.nppain-dia.nic.in)
46 Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website (http://
mohfw.nic.in/index1.php?linkid=338&level=1&lid=1640&l
ang=1) downloaded on 21 October 2013
47 Department-related parliamentary standing commit-tee on health and family welfare - Fifty-Ninth Report On The Functioning Of The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)
48 Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website (http://mohfw.nic.in/index1.php?linkid=338&level=1&lid=1640&lang=1) downloaded on 21 October 2013
49 Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website (http://mohfw.nic.in/index1.php?linkid=338&level=1&lid=1640&lang=1) downloaded on 21 October 2013
50 Gazette Notification GSR 53E dated 30.1.2013 down-loaded from http://www.cdsco.nic.in/html/Notification.html on 21 October 2013
51 Gazette Notification GSR 53E dated 30.1.2013 down-loaded from http://www.cdsco.nic.in/html/Notification.html on 21 October 2013
52 Supreme Court Order dated 30 September 2013 on WP(C)No. 33/2012 with WP(C)No. 79/2012
53 PwC, 2012, “From vision to decision, Pharma 2020, (http://www.pwc.com/pharma )
54 World Bank, 2007, Campos J E, Bhargava V. Tackling a social pandemic. In: Campos J E, Pradhan S (eds), “The 50.Many Faces of Corruption: Tracking Vulnerabilities at the Sector Level. Washington DC
55 Circular No.5/2012 dated 1-8-2012
56 PwC 16th Annual Global CEO Survey (www.pwc.com)We thank the following PwC team members for their 
valuable contributions to this report: 
Krishnakumar Sankarnarayanan
Nisha Vishwakarma
Ritesh KhotRitesh PalSujay Shetty
Sagar Pawar
About CII 
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an 
environment conducive to the development of India, partnering industry, Government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed 
organization, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association has over 7100 members, from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, 
and an indirect membership of over 90,000 enterprises from around 257 
national and regional sectoral industry bodies.
CII charts change by working closely with Government on policy issues, 
interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialized services 
and strategic global linkages. It also provides a platform for consensus-building 
and networking on key issues.
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify and 
execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civil society 
organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive 
development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through 
Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII 
advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus on accountability, transparency and measurement in the corporate and social eco-system, building a knowledge 
economy, and broad-basing development to help deliver the fruits of progress 
to all.
With 63 offices, including 10 Centres of Excellence, in India, and 7 overseas 
offices in Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 countries, 
CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international 
business community.
Contacts
Confederation of Indian Industry
Western Region105 Kakad Chambers, 132 Dr Annie Besant RoadWorli, Mumbai - 400018Maharashtra, IndiaPhone: +91 22 24931790Fax: +91 22 24939463 / 2494 5831Email: ciiwr@cii.inWebsite: www.cii.in
About PwC 
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re 
looking for. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in 
Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you 
and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, 
Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For 
more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.
pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its 
member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcContacts
Sujay Shetty
Executive Director, India Pharmaceutical& Life Sciences Industry LeaderPwCEmail: sujay.shetty@in.pwc.comPhone: +91 22 6669 1305
Nisha Vishwakarma
Manager,  India Pharmaceuticals  & Life SciencesPwCEmail: nisha.vishwakarma@ in.pwc.comPhone: +91 22 6669 1100
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, 
based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of 
the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private 
Limited (a limited liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 99 - October 2013 India Pharma Inc.: Changing landscape of Indian pharma industry.indd
Designed by: Brand and Communications, India
