Title: pwc_harvesting-the-sun-to-address-southern-region-power
Date Published: 2013-12-13 15:05:14+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_harvesting-the-sun-to-address-southern-region-power.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Harvesting the sun to address 
southern region power woes
CII - Conference on solar power
www.pwc.in
11 December 2013
Overview   p2/Policy and regulatory framework for solar power  p6/Transmission 
and evacuation infrastructure plans  p12/Financing of solar projects  p14/Global 
outlook  p18/The need for a competitive ecosystem in India  p21/Securing and 
diversifying the energy mix by distributed generation  p25/Enabling frameworks 
would ensure sustained push for the solar sector  p27

CII - Conference on solar power    3
Overview
India, which has been traditionally 
dominated by conventional energy sources, has the fifth largest power 
generation capacity in the world. As on 
September 2013, the country’s generation capacity stood at 228 GW, out of which the southern states contribute close to 25%. 
Installed generation capacity (GW)
0%5%10%15%20%
050100150200250
FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
%growthCapacity (GW)
Years
Thermal Nuclear Hydro Renewable energy
% growth in NEWNE region % growth in southern region
Source: Central Electrical Authority (CEA)
The southern region of India comprising of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, has seen an increasing power 
deficit situation over a period of time. 
The power deficit in the southern region peaked at 15.5%, unlike the improving deficit scenario of the northern, eastern, 
western and north-eastern (NEWNE) region of India where the deficit is 6.1%. 
Barriers such as fuel shortage, lack of 
sufficient capacity addition and delay in 
integrating the southern with  the NEWNE grid, have been  the key reasons for the widening power deficit within  the region. 
Energy deficit (in %)
0%4%8%12%16%20%
FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 till 
September 
2013Deficit (%)
Years
Andhra Pradesh Karnataka Kerala Tamil Nadu NEWNE
Source: CEA
4 PwCHigh deficit situation in the southern region 
has led to  some of the states resorting to scheduled and unscheduled load shedding 
as well as adopting  restriction and control 
(R&C) measures.  Load shedding ranges  from a few hours within the  capital cities in the region to more than eight hours in Tier-
II cities, and even more in the rural areas in 
summer season.  Moreover, demand from industrial as well as  commercial consumers  in the region is controlled by way of setting up a cap on allowable energy, while  
demand in the states of Tamil Nadu and 
Andhra Pradesh is controlled through R&C measures. Stringent penalties are imposed on consumers not complying with R&C 
guidelines.
Power shortages have crippled regular 
operations of industries and commercial consumers. Businesses are forced to either cut down production or use captive power 
generation or buy power from the exchange 
due to the power cuts. 
With the use of alternate options, the cost 
of power generation through  diesel or 
heavy furnace oil is around three to four 
times more expensive than grid power. This is in addition to the capital cost incurred while  purchasing the generation equipment and inverters. Industrial consumers today 
consider that having in place a power 
backup is a necessity, and are ready to incur the capital and operating costs so as to ensure reliability, despite its effect on 
the profitability of the companies. Small 
size businesses which cannot afford  high cost arrangements like power generation through diesel, procure from power exchange, has to rely on grid connected 
power and are forced to cut down their 
production due to load shedding. 
Need for energy supply diversity
Currently, obstacles such as widening deficit,  increasing cost as well as  unavailability of conventional fuels, 
long gestation period for setting up of 
conventional power plants, impact on the economy due to  the import of fossil fuels is a challenge to the energy security scenario of the nation. This situation 
is paving the way for  the country to 
consider alternative sources of energy which are quick to install, environmental friendly, locally available  and need not  be imported.
The southern region is endowed with 
significant renewable energy generation potential which is estimated to be over 51GW (excluding solar).  Till March 
2012, around 12.4 GW has been installed, 
which is a commendable 44% of the country’s total installed renewable energy generation capacity. The southern states have varying levels of renewable energy penetration. Tamil Nadu, one of the forerunners in harnessing  renewable energy, has 
installed a capacity of 7.4 GW, which is the 
highest in the country, and accounts for approximately 31% of the total installed 
capacity in India.
Installed renewable capacity (MW) as on August 2013
118435711757491
Andhra 
PradeshKarnatakaKeralaTamil Nadu
CapacityStates
Source: Ministry New and Renewable Energy (MNRE)
Wind energy has been the biggest 
contributor to the share of renewable energy in southern region. Tamil Nadu has 
again been the forerunner  in harnessing 
wind energy, while  other  states in the region are catching up.
CII - Conference on solar power    5
Market for solar power: Unique 
to south India 
India has a vast potential for solar power 
generation, since around  58% of the total land area receives an annual average 
global irradiation of above 5 kWh/m2/
day. The total installed capacity of grid-interactive solar energy as on October 2013 was 2079.97 MW. This forms over 
8% of the total installed capacity of 
renewable energy. 
The 12th Five Year plan’s strategy for 
the period  2013-17, aims to develop an ambitious 10,000 MW of solar energy.Installed capacity of grid-interactive solar power  (in MW) as on October 2013
25%
50%5%13%4%3%Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission  
State policy
Rooftop od small solar projects or 
Generation Based Incentive Scheme
Renewable Energy Certificate Scheme
Other phot voltaic projects
Solar thermal
Source: MNRE
6 PwC
Solar irradiation and  grid interactive solar capacity (MW) as on October 2013
Tamil Nadu
Commissioned: 21MWAndhra Pradesh
Commissioned: 63 MW
Karnataka
Commissioned: 24MWSolar irradiation and  grid interactive solar capacity (MW) as on October 2013Currently, the top three states in the 
country with installed solar generation capacity include, Gujarat, with an 
installed capacity of over 852 MW, 
Rajasthan with 608 MW, and Madhya Pradesh with 220 MW. Apart from good radiation, successful adoption of solar 
power in these states can be attributed to 
encouraging policies as well as supportive regulations rolled-out by the respective state governments. Other states such as Uttar Pradesh, Punjab are also following  
suit, and are introduding various policies 
as well as  competitive tariffs in order to attract private investments in solar power generation projects. 
Southern states such as Andhra Pradesh, 
Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have reported a decent  average solar irradiation of 5.0 to 6.0 kwh/m2/day, 
with around 300 clear sunny days in 
a year. Despite  being a resource rich region, the combined total installed grid connected solar capacity in the southern 
states constituites a mere 5.2% of the 
country’s installed solar power capacity. 
Even if only 0.5% of the wasteland is used 
in the region, the realisable potential is above 15, 000 MW. The southern region 
can increase its solar capacity installation 
considerably, installing in excess of its current announced targets.
Source: Solargis, MNRE
With developments such as reduction in the cost of generation from solar power projects over the last five years,  
backed by policies such as the Jawaharlal 
Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM), mandatory solar purchase obligation (SPO) as well as  proactive state-specific 
solar policies supporting development 
of roof top, decentralised and large utility scale projects, the region is poised to spearhead a massive deployment of solar power projects and thereby drive 
investments within  the sector.
CII - Conference on solar power    7Policy and regulatory 
framework  for solar power
Power generation from renewable sources 
is constantly on the rise in India, with the share of renewable energy in the country’s 
total energy mix rising from 7.8% in FY08 
to 12.3% in FY13. Wind power has led the renewable energy capacity addition within  the country, registering a growth 
of 34% in the last decade, and its  installed 
capacity reaching 19.93 GW in October 2013. This  growth can be attributed to a conducive  policy and regulatory framework in the form of preferential 
tariffs, renewable purchase obligations 
(RPO), renewable energy certificate(REC) mechanism as well as  fiscal benefits such as  accelerated depreciation and 
generation based incentives (GBI) to 
wind power developers. The states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are among the leading states in India in wind power with a total installed capacity at 7.2 GW and 
2.1 GW respectively. Similar success, if 
replicated in the solar space, may address the energy shortage problem of these states. 
Currently, growth in solar can be 
associated with various promotional policies both at the national as well as the  state level. JNNSM has been driving solar installations within  the country 
since its launch in 2009. It aims to achieve 
a grid-cost parity for solar energy and  install 20 GW of grid connected solar power by 2022.  The southern region 
has  been  proactive in terms of policy 
formulation. Karnataka was the first among the southern states to formulate  a comprehensive solar policy. Other states such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and 
Kerala  have announced their respective 
solar policies in recent times.Tamil Nadu 
With a vision of developing Tamil Nadu as the world leader in solar energy, the government of Tamil Nadu along with the 
state nodal agency Tamil Nadu Energy 
Development Agency (TEDA)  drew up  the Tamil Nadu Solar Energy Policy in 2012.  The policy envisages a solar 
capacity addition of 3,000 MW through 
utility scale, solar roof top projects and the REC mechanism by 2015. 
Key policy aspects
Solar purchase obligation
The state has obligated various consumer 
categories (HT I to V and LT V category)  in order to meet the solar purchase 
obligation of 3% till December 2013 and 
6% from January 2014 onwards. Being a first of its kind, where the obligation rests  directly on the consumers, this SPO is 
expected to drive  solar power investments 
within  the state. 
The FY13 energy consumption of  obligated 
consumers within  the state is 22,381 MUs. The obligation will  translate to  a solar 
capacity requirement of 426 MW at 3% SPO 
and 852 MW at 6% SPO. 
Key supporting incentives
The incentives offered by the state 
government for the development of the 
solar energy sector under the solar energy policy include the following:
• The GBI scheme for capacity addition 
of 50 MW is targeted for domestic 
solar rooftop installations. A incentive 
of  2 INR per unit  for the first two years,  1 INR per unit for the next two  years,  0.5 INR per unit for the 
next two  years for all solar as well 
as hybrid plants installed before 31 March  2014  will  be provided.
• Net-metering is allowed to promote 
rooftop penetration
• Exemption from the payment of 
electricity tax to an extent of 100% on electricity generated from solar power projects, used for self-consumption or 
sale to utility will  be permitted  for 
five years.
• Exemption from demand cut to the extent of 100% of the installed 
capacity assigned for captive use 
purpose will be permitted.
• Guaranteed single-window clearance in 30 days
8 PwCThe charges for open access transactions, 
that is, for energy supply through a third-party or a captive, are to be finalised by the 
state. Investments within  the sector are 
likely to gain momentum once the  applicable open access charges are announced by the regulator.
States progress: A 1000 MW competitive 
bid process
In December 2012, the Tamil Nadu 
Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd (TANGEDCO) announced a 1,000 
MW tender for solar projects within the 
state. Towards this, letter of intents to the tune of  499 MW were issued, and the capacity tied up is expected to go up as 
Letter of intent (LoIs) were signed with 
bidders to implement bid capacity or higher. TANGEDCO determined a tariff of  6.48 INR per  kWh, with 5% escalation for acceptable bids, which is considered 
feasible by many independent power 
producers (IPPs) as well as  developers claiming accelerated depreciation benefits. 
Key points
Capacity offered: 1,000 MW
Letter of intent issued:  499 MW
PPA: Twenty years with the TANGEDCOTariff: 6.48 INR per kWh, with 5% 
escalation for the first 10 years
Status: PPA yet to be signed 
While letter of intent (LoIs) has been 
allocated, the PPAs are yet to be signed. 
The expedition of signing a  PPA will  help achieve financial closure and support the business decisions of developers who have 
timed the project for both normal as well as  
accelerated depreciation benefits.Rooftop solar
For rooftop solar systems of 1 kW, a capital subsidy of 30% is to be provided by the government of India and 20% by the state 
government. The state government of 
Tamil Nadu has announced this  additional subsidy for solar rooftop projects in the month of October 2013. With this 
announcement, an investor now needs 
to bring in only the remaining 50%. This subsidy will be given on a first come, first serve basis to the first 10,000 customer. It will be given only to grid-connected, 
without battery systems, and only for 
domestic consumers (LT-1A category). Solar power generated is to be consumed within the building.
Net metering guidelines
Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has recently announced its guidelines for net metering 
implementation within  Tamil Nadu. 
According to these guidelines, two separate meters  will be installed for metering purpose. While one meter will be  
for measuring solar power generation,  the 
other meter will be for export or import measurement. However, solar generation meter is optional for consumers not availing the GBI. 
An annual cap has been set for the amount 
of energy residential photo voltaic (PV) system owners can supply to the  local grid under the net metering scheme. 
The electricity generated by a residential 
PV system will  be capped commercially at 90% of the electricity consumption by the eligible consumer at the end of a settlement period, and the excess energy 
generated beyond the 90% cap will be 
treated as lapsed. Furthermore, at the local distribution level, connectivity to rooftop PV systems will be restricted 
to 30% of the distribution transformer 
capacity on a  first come, first served basis. 
The settlement period is 12 months 
between August and July each year. As the settlement period ends immediately after 
the summer season, any excess generation 
accumulated during the summer season might get lapsed.

CII - Conference on solar power    9Solar tariff and open access regulation
Recently, the TNREC has released a draft 
consultative paper on solar tariff for solar PV, Solar thermal and kilowatt (kW) scale 
systems. A solar PV tariff of  5.78 INR per  
kWh with no escalation was proposed. The tariffs proposed for solar thermal and kW scale systems are  8.34 INR per kWh and  
8.15 INR per kWh respectively. 
It is to be seen if the tariff will  be revised 
considering the dynamics of capital, financing as well as  operational costs, and other factors such as  the capacity 
utilisation factor, the area required, 
technology (domestic as well as  global), keeping in view that among the consumers, both IPPs as well as  investors  
are keen to implement solar power 
projects within  the state.
Andhra Pradesh
The state has drawn out a solar policy with an aim to  encourage  investments in grid and off-grid solar power projects. 
The policy has given greater emphasis on 
development of projects under the third-party, captive or REC route.
Key supporting incentives 
The state government has provided a host 
of  incentives to  solar power generators within  the state in order to  encourage  solar power generations. These incentives 
include the following:  
• Wheeling and transmission charges 
are not applicable  for the sale of power within the state.
• Cross-subsidy surcharge is not applicable for intra-state open access sale and captive use.
• Hundred per cent banking facility will  be permitted for 12 months. 
Towards this, banked energy cannot 
be redeemed between the months of February and June.
• All solar power projects will  be exempted from paying electricity duty for captive consumption and third party sale.
• Value added tax (VAT) for all the inputs required for solar power projects will  be refunded.
• The Industries Department will provide incentive in terms of refund 
of stamp duty as well as  registration 
charges for the land purchased for setting up a solar power project.
As per the policy, incentives proposed 
are valid for a period of seven  years 
from the date of implementation. Such communication regarding the certainty of a policy is an aspect   investors give huge importance, and is a driving factor for 
mobilising investments within  the sector.
States progress: A 1000 MW competitive 
bid process 
Andhra Pradesh announced bids to the 
tune of  1,160 MW of solar PV projects which was oversubscribed by 570 MW, 
thereby totaling up to 1,730 MW. Project 
sizes were of five  and 10 MW each. The highest bid was 15.99 INR per kWh and the lowest bid was 6.49 INR per 
kWh. The locations, for which bids have 
been submitted, have been allocated a total capacity of 920 MW only by Andhra Pradesh Transmission Company (APTRANSCO). Among the 121 locations 
bid for, there is a possibility that the 
capacities bid for in these locations may not actually lead to complete fill up of capacity for each location. 
So far, under the solar policy, the state has 
received offers for only 418 MW, thereby  leaving a large gap in its planned target. Key points 
Capacity offered: 1,000 MW
Letter of intent issued: 144 MW
PPA: Twenty years, with the DISCOM
Tariff: 6.49 INR per kWh
Status: PPA yet to be signed 
Decentralised solar power
The state has a total capacity of 11 MW 
sanctioned under the off-grid standalone solar plants, and the installed capacity as 
on September 2010 is only 139 KW. The 
New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NEDCAP) has been working closely with a number 
of organisations in order to improve the 
awareness about decentralised solar power systems among industrial as well as  domestic consumers. 
The state government intends to provide 
solar pump sets to agriculturists on a huge 
subsidy basis, and this benefit  will  be extended only to those villages which do not have a conventional grid. Under the 
Solar Photovoltaic Lanterns programme, 
around  22,000 solar lanterns will  be distributed during the financial year 2013-14. The state government will  subsidise each lantern to the extent of  500 INR to 
all categories of beneficiaries. Solar water 
heating  as well as  lighting systems are also gaining popularity among industrial consumers. Recently, the Warangal 
Municipal Corporation has installed a 
27 KW rooftop solar PV power system in order to run the office lighting system.
10 PwC
Net metering guidelines
The state government has announced a 
policy for encouraging net metering within  the state. This facility is only provided to 
three  phase consumers.  Compensation 
for surplus energy pumped into the system is a pooled cost as decided by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory 
Commission (APERC) from time-to-time, 
and settled on a half-yearly basis. Such a payment is made for the period of seven  years, starting from the date of setting up of the project. The state has decided to 
provide 20% subsidy for systems up to 3 
kW in addition to the 30% Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) subsidy.  A detailed set of technical guidelines 
related to the installation and safety 
procedures have  also issued.
Karnataka
Karnataka has come up with a Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2009-14 in 2009, wherein a target of 126 MW of 
solar power was envisaged up to 2013-
14. This included the power that the state was likely to receive  under the JNSSM. After the enactment of the 
Karnataka RE policy, Karnataka Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (KERC) issued the renewable purchase obligation (RPO) regulations in order to encourage the initiation of solar projects within the 
state. The state government thereafter 
decided to implement a dedicated solar policy, and has subsequently formulated  the Karnataka Solar Policy 2011-16 
for the development of solar projects. 
The Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited (KREDL) as the 
state nodal agency is responsible for 
implementing this policy.
Key aspects of the policy  include the 
following:
• Proposal  to install 200 MW of 
solar-based projects by 2015-16, for  procurement by Electricity Supply Companies (ESCOMs), added at an annual capacity of 40 MW
• The minimum capacity shall be 3 MW and maximum 10 MW for solar PV-based projects. For solar thermal projects, the minimum capacity shall 
be 5 MW
• The capacities will be allotted through 
a competitive bid process, under the reverse bidding route, with a maximum tariff based on the KERC 
tariff order as of  13 July 2010 
• Captive power plants and the sale of 
power to third parties are not a part of the 200 MW capacity. Wheeling as 
well as  open access charges will be 
applicable as determined by the KERC or Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC).
• An additional 50 MW is reserved for  
central or  state-owned undertakings 
for setting-up solar projects in the state for the purpose of bundling with thermal power from outside the state,  
at government approved rates. 
• Solar energy generators can sell 
electricity to the ESCOMs at a pooled cost of power purchase as determined by the KERC or  CERC, and sells the 
RECs to obligated entities. States progress: A 200 MW competitive 
bid process in the last two  years.
The state auctioned 80 MW of solar energy 
in 2011 and a further 130 MW in 2013 to meet it RPO.  Phase 1 capacity included a 
10 MW solar thermal project. 
Except for a 10 MW solar PV project that 
has been commissioned, other project  are currently under construction.  The state 
has extended the deadline for completion 
of project under phase I to March 2014.
Key points 
Capacity offered: 200 MW
PPA: Twenty-five  years with respective 
ESCOMs
Tariff: 
• Phase 1:  7.94 to 8.50 INR per kWh 
• Phase 2:  5.51 to8.05 INR per kWh
Status: Ten MW commissioned under 
Phase 1, and PPA to be signed for 130 
MW of Phase 2
Feed-in-tariffs for solar plants
Karnataka Electricity Regulatory 
Commission has recently introduced tariffs for grid connected projects. 
Type of solar plant Tariff (INR 
per kWh)
Solar PV plants 8.40
Rooftop and small solar plants 9.56
Rooftop and small solar plants with 30% capital subsidy7.20
Source: KERC solar tariff order 2013
However, results of both the phases in 
the bid process indicate  that the KERC’s benchmark as well as  average tariff in the 
market differ, while  the tariff recently 
announced by the KERC may only serve as a benchmark for future capacity allotments under the reverse bidding 
process.
In case of small and rooftop solar plants, 
there is generally no reverse bidding process. Although Karnataka is yet to  announce a specific net metering or 
rooftop policy, similar policies announced 
in other states in the region indicate  that projects falling under this category have been  allocated on a first-come-first-serve 
basis. Specific net metering guidelines will 
encourage consumers as well as  investors to look into  rooftop projects with renewed interest. 
CII - Conference on solar power    11Kerala 
Kerala Solar Energy Policy 2013
In order to mainstream solar energy 
in Kerala and ensure optimal usage of available solar potential in the region, the 
state government of Kerala formulated  its 
Solar Energy Policy 2013.
Key policy aspects  include the following:• To achieve a solar installed capacity 
of 500 MW by 2017 and 1,500 MW by 
2030
• To promote the use of solar water heating system (SWHS) and solar steam systems
• For off-grid systems, the policy seeks to ensure bank finance at attractive rates, and provides generation-based incentives rather than capital 
subsidies
• The Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) 
shall notify the normative preferential tariff of solar power for procurement 
by the Kerala State Electricity Board 
(KSEB) in case of offsite commercial installations. For all agencies that consume grid power and have 
installed solar installations with some 
form of government subsidy, only net metering shall be applicable.
• The government of Kerala  will  assess as well as help developers identify 
the land areas suitable for solar 
installations
• Incentives in the form of exemption of open access charges, wheeling as well 
as  transmission charges within the 
state are  applicableKerala Off-grid Rooftop Programme
Kerala has one of the highest population densities in the country and does not have any sizable area of barren land.  This 
makes the development of utility scale 
ground mount solar PV projects difficult to implement. States geography imposes challenges on solar power generation, 
thereby making it  a lesser attractive 
option as compared to the neighboring states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and  Andhra Pradesh. Hence, in such a scenario, the off-grid rooftop PV systems 
become an attractive proposition for state.
Kerala has launched an off-grid solar 
rooftop programme known as the 10,000 Solar Rooftop Programme. Households 
interested in putting up solar PV systems 
(of 1 kWp, off-grid) can apply to the state nodal agency, the Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT). Households within 
the state will receive a 30% subsidy from the MNRE, and in addition, another  
39,000 INR from the government of Kerala through the ANERT. As of May 2013, a total of 11,590 applications for these systems have been received by ANERT. 
Key aspects of this programme as follows:
• Each rooftop power plant (solar 
array) shall be of 1 kWp capacity
• Only off-grid power plants are covered under this programme
• State will give additional subsidy of 
39000 INR per system to beneficiary
• Central government subsidy of  
81,000 INR or 30% of the cost of the power plant (whichever is less) is 
expected
State Transmission and 
wheeling chargesTransmission and wheeling lossesBanking CSS on third-party Other incentives
Andhra PradeshNot applicable Normal transmission and wheeling losses applicableHundred per cent banking permitted. No redemption of banked units between the months of February and June, and also during ToD hoursNot applicable Electricity duty exempted
Karnataka Not applicable Not applicable Hundred per cent banking permitted Not applicable None
Kerala Not applicable Not applicable Conditional banking as per the policy - Electricity duty exempted
Tamil Nadu (proposed)Thirty per cent of the applicable chargesNormal transmission and wheeling losses applicableNot yet finalised Fifty per cent of the applicable cross subsidy surchargeElectricity tax exempted for five years for captive, and a 100% demand cut
Source: PwC Analysis, Tariff order• Applicants must be willing to meet the 
remaining expense of around 1 lakh INR
• A total of 10,000 of such systems will be installed in the state totaling 10 MW solar PV capacity
• All the installation has to  meet 
the specifications of the central  
government  as well as  implement projects through empanelled vendors
Encouraging projects under the open 
access route
With increasing retail tariffs, industrial 
as well as  commercial consumers are considering options to hedge their energy 
costs. Consumers are currently pursuing 
the open access based sourcing under a third-party or group captive routes in order to procure energy directly from 
the generators. These options also 
help  consumers meet their respective renewable or solar purchase obligations. An open access-based power procurement process has been a success in states such 
as Tamil Nadu. 
The solar policies and open access 
(OA) regulations within  the southern states support procurement of solar 
energy through OA mechanisms. While 
the applicable charges for solar OA transactions are defined in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala, Tamil Nadu has proposed the applicable 
charges in a draft order which is yet to be 
finalised. While Karnataka has come up with a complete waiver on open access charges and has paved the way  for 100% 
banking, other southern states  have also 
extended the specific benefits for solar projects  set-up under the open access route.
12 PwC
level of  9.3 INR per kWh. The outstanding 
inventory of solar RECs till end of November 2013 is 54,506 RECs as against 
the average monthly redemption which 
has been within the range of 1,703 RECs to 9,257 RECs in 2013. Lower demand  due to the lack of strict compliance to the 
renewable purchase obligation. Some 
states have come forward to enforce the RPO because of which demand for Solar RECs has picked up since September 2013. 
The secondary aspect is related to 
regulatory support to such projects.  Issues such as uncertainty in the open access charges applicable,  the matter 
of extension of concessional charges 
to such projects and the REC eligibility have all contributed to the ambiguity for developers to undertake projects under REC mechanism. Clarity on OA 
charges applicable, stringent compliance 
enforcement and revision of RPO targets, keeping in line with market expectations, will encourage investments in REC-based projects. REC mechanism
The REC mechanism has been framed in order to promote renewable energy development and assist the obligated 
entities to meet the RPO obligation by way 
of purchasing the ‘green’ component of the renewable energy. Till 30 November 2013, 308.87 MW of solar PV capacity 
and 3 MW of solar thermal capacity are 
accredited under the REC mechanism in the country. Out of this capacity, only 42.6 MW is accredited from the southern states. Similarly out of 262 MW of solar 
PV capacity registered under the REC 
mechanism in the country, only 14.8 MW is registered from the four states of southern India.
Capacity addition under the REC 
mechanism is not significant, primarily due to the fact that the current demand for solar RECs is much lower than the supply available. This has resulted in the building 
up of a large amount of  unsold inventory 
of solar RECs, and as a result, the clearing prices have remained at the floor price Conclusion
Undoubtedly, with a basic policy and regulatory framework in place, if certain  market fundamentals are addressed,  
in the future, solar energy can play a 
significant role for a secure and diversified mix of energy in the southern region of India. Currently, the region is chalking 
out a roadmap to position itself as a hub 
for solar power. Despite its highs and lows, policy-backed projects will continue to be the largest driver for new capacity addition in the coming years, while 
business models will be explored in order 
to match the market requirements.
CII - Conference on solar power    13• Inadequate evacuation infrastructure
• Load management of grid, owing to 
the infirm nature of the generation
This problem, if not tackled, will also affect the solar generation sources which are coming up in a huge  way, over  the next few years. As per the CEA, 32,713 
MW of renewable energy generation 
capacity is expected to be added in 12th  Five Year Plan which includes around 16,500 MW from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. These three states 
are expected to add close to 5,000 MW 
of solar power capacity by FY17.  It is therefore important for the southern region to address the evacuation-related 
issues in order to maximise the utilisation 
of the RE sources.
Management of renewable 
energy 
Understanding the need for strengthening 
the transmission evacuation, the forum of regulators and the Power Grid 
Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) 
in July 2012 proposed the need for a ‘Green Energy Corridor’ for evacuating  renewable energy generation in the 
RE-rich states. PGCIL has proposed to 
augment an inter-state transmission system, an intra-state transmission System, and a last mile connectivity system to the state transmission utility 
(STU) network, and  strengthening within 
state for conveyance of ISTS transfer.Transmission and evacuation 
infrastructure plans 
Renewable energy generation in India 
is concentrated within a few states, and within a couple of districts in those 
states. Generation capacity has increased 
rapidly over time, but the evacuation infrastructure development has been able to keep pace with the generation 
infrastructure. 
Currently, certain pockets of the state 
transmission network are yet to support evacuation of renewable energy at its peak generation. With additional  capacity 
likely to be added at the sites with good 
potential which are situated far away from load centres, the network is bound to face congestion. Investors today focus  
on setting up  projects even in good 
potential sites, even after considering the evacuation challenges.
Wind as well as  solar generation sources 
are infirm generation sources, and are 
deemed as a must run. However, it has 
been observed that wind power generating sources in states of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have been asked to back-down 
leading to significant loss of revenue 
as well as  electricity generation.   Key reasons towards this step are as follows: 
Intra-state transmission system proposed by the RE-rich states 
State Transmission line Additional Substations
Tamil Nadu •	1,440 ckms of 400 kV line
•	91 ckms of 230 kV line
•	45 ckms of 110 kV line•	1 no. of 400/230 kV S/s (830 MVA)
•	1 no. of 230/110 kV S/s (300MVA)
Andhra 
Pradesh •	460 ckms of  400 kV line
•	582 ckms of 220 kV line•	1 no. of 400/220 kV S/s (1260 MVA)
•	5 no. of 220/132 kV S/s (1120MVA)
Source: PGCIL, (As per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance to ISTS)
Proposed connectivity system to the STU network (intra-state)
State Transmission line Additional Substations
Tamil Nadu •	1,620 ckms of 230 kV line
•	2,840 ckms of 110 kV line•	10 no. of 230/33 kV S/s (2900 MVA)
•	22 no. of 110/33 kV S/s (4400 MVA)
Karnataka •	630 ckms of 220 kV line
•	1,160 ckms of 132 kV line•	4 no. of 220/33 kV S/s (1200 MVA)
•	9 no. of 132/33 kV S/s (1750 MVA)
Andhra Pradesh•	900 ckms of 220 kV line
•	1600 ckms of 132 kV line•	5 no. of 220/33 kV S/s (1600 MVA)
•	12 no. of 132/33 kV S/s (2450 MVA)
Source: PGCIL, (As per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance to ISTS)
14 PwCProposed system strengthening within the state for conveyance of ISTS transfer 
State Transmission line 
Tamil Nadu •	1,240 ckms of 400kV line 
•	1,500 ckms of 230kV line •	6 no. of 400/230/110 kV S/s (6925 MVA) 
•	4 no. of 230/110 kV S/s (2650 MVA)
Karnataka •	720 ckms of 220 kV line -
Andhra 
Pradesh•	260 ckms of 400 kV line 
•	1,178 ckms of 220 kV line•	2 no. of 400/220 kV S/s (2205 MVA) 
•	4 no. of 220/132 kV S/s (600 MVA) 
•	400/220 kV S/s Augmentation (3465 MVA) 
•	220/132 kV S/s Augmentation (1450 MVA)
Source: PGCIL, (As per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance to ISTS)
Some of the proposed inter-state 
transmission systems corridors in the southern region are as follows:
• Establishment of a plus  500 kV, 2500 
MW New Pugalur - Hyderabad HVDC Bipole
• Establishment of a 400 kV Srisailam - 
Kurnool New Double Circuit ( D/c)
• The New Pugalur - Udumalpet 400 
kV D/c 
• The New Pugalur - Vagarai 400 kV D/c (quad) 
• The New Pugalur - Pugalur 400 kV D/c (quad) 
• The Hyderabad – Hyderabad(New) 400 kV D/c (quad) 
• The LILO of Tuticorin Pool-Salem 765 kV line at New Pugalur (initially to be operated at 400 kV)
• Establishment of a +500 kV, HVDC terminal stations (2500MW), each at 
New Pugalur and  Hyderabad 
• Establishment of 400 kV substations 
at New Pugalur and  Hyderabad 
On a positive note, work towards building 
the Green Energy Corridor has been 
initiated, and the Government of India  has received its first tranche of soft loan from Germany under Indo-German Bilateral Development Cooperation 
Program in November 2013. Considering 
the fact the gestation period of RE projects is much shorter than the time required to plan and construct evacuation 
infrastructure, it is critical to accelerate 
the construction process in order to accommodate  energy from the RE projects.Grid integration for renewables 
Generation of power from solar and wind energy are variable in nature, and high levels of penetration as observed in the 
RE-rich states, such as  the four states of 
southern India,  can impact the stability of the grid which is required to operate within  a tight frequency band as well as  
other operating parameters.
Rather than curtailing the generation 
of power by requesting  RE projects to back-down their generation or imposing penalties by calling   for strict adherence 
to forecasting, it is important to develop 
systems as well as  infrastructure which can help in managing the grid effectively
Forecasting of generation
•	Forecasting of generation from  
RE sources can help the system operator in managing other generation sources and demand 
•	Forecasting can be done by the RE generator or the system operator, as done in Europe. RE generators must  not be penalised for giving inaccurate forecast.
•	Since the forecasting systems are 
not matured and the accuracy of forecast is better at the grid scale 
rather than individual farm level
Peaking power and hydro generation
•	The state must try to manage 
the grid by utilizing gas-based peaking power stations, and storage-based hydro power plants in order to scale up and down the generation so as  to accommodate the variable RE generation.Smart grid 
•	Smart grids can help in 
managing the grid instability by efficient control of demand and other generation sources.
Real-time markets
•	As per the industry, having in 
place a real-time market, in addition to existing Day Ahead Market (DAM) will help provide opportunity to the states to handle variable generation from RE sources
Solar energy when compared to the other 
infirm renewable energy generation sources is easier to forecast. Various 
mathematical models have evolved 
over  time, which can fairly estimate the generation. Accuracy is expected to be low at the farm level, but when aggregated at 
a district or state grid level, the level of 
accuracy is expected to be considerably high.
The CEA report on grid integration of 
RE power also suggests having in place  
renewable energy management centres  
in  each state, and regional load dispatch centres which will  conduct a  real-time forecast of the RE generation, and work 
with  load dispatch centres in effective 
control of the grid.
Currently, owing to the inadequate 
integration of the northern with the southern grid, and also the inadequate 
integration of various states transmission 
networks, it has been difficult to manage  excess or under generation in a specific  RE-rich state.  However, with the 
commissioning of the Raichur- Sholapur 
765 kV link line and strengthening of the inter-state transmission system as a part of the Green Energy Corridor, surplus energy could be exported to the energy-deficit 
states, which could  also manage the 
stability of grid.
CII - Conference on solar power    15
Financing of solar projects
Renewable energy projects, including 
solar projects are highly capital-intensive in nature. Therefore raising finance 
is the most important activity for the 
development of the project, as financial costs form the biggest component of the overall operational cost, and is the major 
cash out flow for the project until the debt 
is repaid.
Risk perceived Factors Mitigation
Construction 
risk•	Land acquisition The government can assist  companies in identifying and assisting in land acquisition or can provide government land for lease.
•	Project developers face hurdles while  obtaining evacuation approval and obtaining right of way for installing evacuation infrastructureThe government can support project developers in providing quicker evacuation approvals and assist developers in addressing ROW- related issues.
Another option is that government can 
build evacuation infrastructure and the cost can be borne by the project developer.
Operations risk •	 Reduced generation 
owing to frequent plant down timeThere is a need for quality in project 
execution and O&M. Investors have to strike a balance between the capital cost of project and quality, in order to minimise the downtime during the life of the project
•	 Generation not as per 
the projectionsA good solar resource assessment (SRA) 
prepared using long-term data and quality information is required to predict the long-term PLF in a more accurate manner.
Also, a good SRA reduces the generation 
uncertainty and is critical a document for lender or investor appraisal.
•	 Curtailment of 
generation due to congestion in evacuation infrastructureThe states must  plan evacuation 
infrastructure taking into consideration a long-term view of possible growth in generation and demand from consumers.The viability of the project greatly depends 
on obtaining cheaper cost of funds and timely financial closure. 
Financing of grid connected MW 
scale projects
It has been observed that solar project 
developers find it difficult to raise finance. The lenders as well as  equity investors 
have a high-risk perception about solar 
power projects, resulting in difficulty in raising funds.
Higher risk perception of projects results in 
increased cost of financing in terms of  higher cost of debt as well as  the security required to be offered. It also results in delay in raising funds due to increased due 
diligence efforts.
16 PwCCommercial 
risk•	PPA risk- delay or default in paymentsStrong payment security in the form of an unconditional irrevocable letter of credit or a bank guarantee can be taken from the buyer (state utility or OA consumer) in order to reduce any risks related to payments  risk.
It is important to evaluate the credit rating 
of the consumer before entering into a PPA.
•	Policy changes and change in revenues in OA-based modelsIncrease in OA charges after project commissioning can drastically reduce the net realisation, and therefore, affect the project viability.
The government must ensure policy 
certainty and not change the policies or regulations which affect the viability of operational projects.
•	REC-based projects Strict enforcement of RPO on utilities as well as other obligated entities in the states is required
Promoter risk •	Equity Projects sponsors must secure the required equity for the project before approaching the lenders.
•	Track record and credit ratingExperience in successfully executing power projects along with experienced management can give comfort to the lenders
Good credit rating of the promoters will  be 
a positive factor in raising funds
It has been observed that financing of 
JNNSM-based and a couple of  state projects have been easier when compared 
to others. This is because of the quality of  
PPAs and the generation performance. 
Debt financing for solar thermal 
generation projects is observed to be 
relatively  difficult given its lower installed 
base in the country. As per the industry, more support is required for solar thermal projects from the government, including providing finance till the capabilities and 
the required ecosystem gets built over the 
period of time in the country. 
Most of the project risks are directly or 
indirectly related to the lack of supporting 
policy and regulations from the government. Strong policy support which can help in mitigating  risks is required in order to enable easy access to cheaper finance to 
project developers
Owing to inherent risks in the 
development of solar as well as  other renewable energy projects  today  few 
projects have raised finance on a non-
recourse basis. Project developers are made to give securities as well as  collaterals in the form of corporate or personal guarantee, bank guarantees 
and in some cases, hard collaterals such 
as  land over and above project land and  assets.Debt financing
Unlike other renewable power projects, solar power projects have access to multiple sources of debt financing which 
include conventional long-term debt 
from banks and financial institutions, funding from export credit agencies and development finance agencies.
Sources Details Issues
Indian Banks and 
NBFCs•	Primary source of financing
•	Available for projects of various sizesHigher cost of funds
Export credit agenciesEXIM banks of various countries have come forward to finance projects executed with equipment, sourced from their respective countries. 
These banks only provide 
debt to the tune of the amount equal to the imported items which form close to 40 to 50% of the project cost.Remaining amount has to be raised from Indian banks
Owing to increased volatility in the 
USD-INR exchange equation, the cost of hedging has reduced the competitiveness of foreign currency loan.
Further, hedging is only available 
for larger size projects being developed by promoters with strong profiles.
Development finance institutionsVarious Development Finance Institutions such as the IFC, OPIC, JICA, kfW, etc have financed solar projects in India at lower interest rates. (in USD terms)Owing to increased volatility in the USD-INR exchange equation,  EXIM funds are increased, thereby resulting in the net cost of debt increasing by 100 to 300 bps
CII - Conference on solar power    17
Other financing strategies
Construction risk is considered to be most 
critical risk as per lenders and investors. The projects are considered to have a low 
risk profile after commissioning. Project 
developers therefore have an option to refinance the project with cheaper funds. 
Developers with a good track record can 
also opt to issue long-term fixed rate 
bonds at the construction stage or during operations for refinancing. Government can also support by offering tax incentives on such solar bonds.
Post-commissioning, any good quality 
project under preferential tariff will  generate annuity kind of returns. Considering the lower risk profile, future 
cash flows can be securitised and the 
money can be utilised to repay the debt or to invest in other projects.
Project developers in few cases have 
availed supplier credit which enables 
them to pay the equipment supplier in 
installments after commissioning. This strategy allows payment of the capital cost 
from the operational revenues. However, 
it has been observed that the duration of  credit provided by suppliers have reduced over the period of time.
Equity financing 
The country has seen increased investor interest in renewable energy industry. While wind energy sector being a mature 
industry has seen several equity deals, the 
solar industry has also attracted numerous investments. Timeline Target 
companyInvestor Deal type Deal value (in million USD)Segment
November 2013NavSemi Energy Pte LtdAlpha Technologies Acquisition NA Equipment
October 2013 Claro Energy Minority stake purchaseAngel investorsNA Solar Power Solutions
June 2013 A 5MW solar power projectFortum Acquisition NA IPP
January 2013 Megatech Power Equipments Pvt LtdConsul Consolidated LtdAcquisition NA Solar Power Solutions
January 2013 HHV Solar Swelect Energy Systems LtdMinority stake purchase3.99 Module manufacturer
June 2012 Sunborne EnergyNA Minority stake purchase5 IPP
February 2012Eversun EnergyTecpro SystemsAcquisition NA Solar EPC
February 2012Enelek Power Blue Circle Services LtdAcquisition NA Solar thermal solutions
February 2012Alex Astral Power Pvt LtdShree Ganesh Jewellery HouseAcquisition 20.29 IPP
January 2012 Gadhia Solar Zephyr Peacock Management IndiaMinority stake purchase7.31 Solar thermal solutions
Source: ISI Emerging Market
18 PwC
Deals took place not only in the area 
of power generation, but also on the equipment and solutions side. 
In order to have increased  investments 
into the solar energy sector of the country, it is important to have low-risk, good quality generation projects backed by 
supportive policy and innovation along 
various segments of the value chain by the technology companies.
Financing of decentralised solar 
generation 
Solar power generation can work 
as a decentralised solution, thereby maximizing the benefits for the consumer. 
Decentralised generation projects include 
rooftop or ground mount systems in the size of 1 kW to close to a MW being set-up to supply power to the industrial or 
commercial and retail consumers. 
Various business models have evolved in 
the developed economies as well as  in India, which are based on decentralised 
power generation through solar. Widely 
used business models are as follows:• Set-up, own and operate for captive 
consumptions 
• Projects set-up by an IPP within  the 
premises of the consumer and energy sold through a PPA
• Solar generation assets are leased to 
the consumer for self-consumption 
under a financial lease or hire purchase
MNRE in the JNNSM scheme outlined financing support for decentralised power generation sources which is in addition to the capital subsidy. As per the scheme, MNRE through Indian Renewable Energy 
Development Agency Limited (IREDA) and 
other agencies such as the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), National Housing Board 
(NHB), Small Industries Development 
Bank of India (SIDBI), etc directly or through commercial banks (refinanced by IREDA, NABARD, NHB, SIDBI, etc) will  provide loans, at not more than 5% to the approved projects. Project developers can however opt 
for long-term debt from commercial 
banks through balance sheet funding. While the market size of the IPP model implementing the decentralised solar generation projects within the  developed 
economies is matured, in India, the market 
is still in its nascent stage. The market will  grow as more IPP-based decentralised 
generation projects come up, validating 
and improving the business models over the period of time. 
It is important from the lenders and 
investors perspective to have business 
models established in order to understand 
the risks and appropriately price the funds. Till that time, it is important for the government to continue supporting the 
decentralised power generation market 
with required funding.
CII - Conference on solar power    19Global outlook
Europe is highest solar installation with 
more than70 GW solar capacity by 2012, representing about 70% of the global  
cumulative PV capacity. Markets outside 
Europe China (8.3 GW), US (7.8 GW), Japan (6.9 GW), Australia (2.4 GW) and regions such as Africa, Middle East, 
South East Asia and Latin America are 
emerging with potential frameworks that may change the topography of solar power projects in the near future. 
In contrast the segment being largely 
driven by  feed-in tariff (FiT) based 
projects, presently and also in future  market are likely to be structured based on business model that can drive regional 
price expectations to a level that makes 
solar power compete with fossil fuels.
Evolution of global PV cumulative installed 
capacity 2009 -2012 (GW)
Source: Global Market Outlook 2013, EPIAMeasures taken by market 
leaders to promote the solar 
sector
Japan 
Details Solar PV
Procurement 
category10 kW or moreLess than 10 kW (purchase of excess 
electricity)
Tariff (per kW) 40.0 yen 42.0 yen
Duration 20 years 20 years
Japan approved its FiT scheme for 
renewable energy in 2011. This Act obliges electric utilities to purchase electricity 
generated from renewable energy sources 
(solar PV, wind power, hydro power, geothermal and biomass) based on a fixed-period contract  with fixed price. Costs 
incurred in purchasing renewable energy 
sourced electricity shall be transferred to the electricity customers, who pay a ‘surcharge for renewable energy’ proportional to electricity usage.
China
As one of the largest markets for renewables in the world, China though slow to develop its own solar energy 
market, has quickly gained momentum 
and reached approximately 8.3GW by 2012 since its start in 2010. Early 2013, China raised its solar target for the fourth 
time in two years to 35 GW by 2015. 
At around the same time, China also announced a 10 GW installation goal for 2013.
Government subsidies for solar PV 
projects in China are granted through 
special programs, such as  the PV Building Demonstration Programme, Golden Sun Programme and FiT. 
In addition to the state council’s policy 
detailed policies related to solar Feed-in-Tariff, tax incentives, development of distributed generation infrastructure and simplifying project approval procedures 
are announced.
Legislative measures like the Electricity 
Act (1996), Interim Regulation on the On-grid Tariff (2005), Renewable Energy Law 
(2006), Regulations on the Administration 
of Renewable Power Energy (2006) provide the basic framework for securing development and defining rules on pricing of renewable power and the relevant 
government subsidies in China.
The National Development and Reform 
Commission on Perfection of Policy in the second half of 2013  seeks revision of 
current FiT to encourage the development 
of solar PV in China.
20 PwCGermany 
Since inception in 2000, The Renewable 
Energy Sources Act promotes renewable energy notably solar PV, wind power and 
biomass through FiT. 
The EU Directive
1 sets out an EU wide 
target of achieving 20% of the final energy 
consumption from renewables by 2020. 
Germany’s final target is 18% by 2020.
In addition the country targets to achieve 
the following levels by 2020:  Green house gas reduction (40% below 1990 
level); renewable heat target (14% of 
thermal energy from renewable energy sources) and renewable energy target (30%). National Renewable Energy Action Plan (NREAP) targets 51.7 GW solar 
installations by 2020. Module prices, internationally 
are generally not stable 
The real case for solar energy as a near 
term alternative to fossil energy is largely pegged on the view that the cost of solar energy have come down rapidly in recent years and will continue to do so in the coming years, largely dictated by the 
module prices. 
As seen from the spot market price in 
the EU, though solar module prices have dropped substantially in recent years, 
much of the decline in recent years is due 
to overproduction and dumping from regions like China.  However balance-of-system (BOS) and other costs that now represent a larger share of installed project 
costs can become the next barrier. By October 2013, there are two price levels which are increasingly visible for module 
supplies from Asia - one for modules from Chinese production which is subject to the EU agreement and thus a restriction on imports; and the other one from the 
rest of Asian region – for which there are 
no regulatory barriers. Global supply chain for photovoltaic modules is seen to stabilise since third quarter, 2013 with the 
EU’s anti-dumping tariffs on the Chinese 
solar modules driving up prices. 
Such trade conflicts might mean low 
cost modules for commercial use may became scarce and the cost of solar energy 
components increase in the year 2014. 
2011
•	Coridor revision proposal1990 - 1999
•	Stromeinspeisungsgesetz (StrEg), 1990: 
PV receives 90% of retail electricity price  
(8.45 - 8.84 Euro cents per kWh)
•	100,000 roofs programme, 1999. Receives 
interest free loan
2000 - 2004
•	2000: Erneuerbare Energien Gesetz (EEG): PV receives 51 cents/kWh)    
350MW program cap   
5MW system cap for roof tops   
100kW system cap for free standing
•	2002: PV cap programme cap raised to 
1000MW
•	2004: EEG amended  
New rates between 46  - 62 Euro cents 
per kWh Programme and system size cap 
removed
2008 - 2010
•	2008 - 2010: EEG amended
•	National FiT registry created
CII - Conference on solar power    21
Source: pv-magazine    EU spot market module price trend (mono/poly) and average net price (Euro/Wp)
Source: PVXchangeCan projects built in India 
continue to stand out from global 
competition?
With entry barriers to the EU, the strategy 
of global manufacturers appears to shift towards performance of the modules sold 
at similar prices and focus on service and 
the associated global operations cost.  Overseas manufacturers might prefer to focus on enhancing their product and 
incorporate additional quality assurance 
measures in their manufacturing operations in order to ensure generation commitments. This means good quality modules comes at a price to projects in 
India.
However, lack of any major breakthrough 
in solar installation and developmental methods, technology improvements, 
procedural and deployment hurdles for 
large scale projects is likely to remain costly and labour intensive atleast with respect to  India. It is increasingly becoming clear that modules below 
250 Wp (for crystalline technology) are 
losing priority in utility scale projects in India. Reductions in cost can come incrementally, in response to scaling up of 
domestic solar manufacturing capacities 
and sustained subsidies in order to realise the full potential.
Scaling solar without heavy subsidies 
will require bringing both module and 
installation costs dramatically, significant 
breakthroughs in electricity transmission and evacuation, storage options and pursuit for centralised solar plants that 
can benefit from economies of scale and 
high irradiation, if specific locations with high insolation level are concentrated for development. 
As a long-term strategy,  developing 
better and cost competitive technologies, 
introducing solar subsidies may be justified. But heavily subsidised projects may not ideally represent a true strategy 
to replace fossil energy.Module price USD per Wp by region - Qtr 3, 2013 Tier 1, Chinese supplierPrice USD per Wp
22 PwCThe need for a competitive 
ecosystem in India
Currently, the total solar PV module 
production capacity in India is approximately 2 GW while the  cell 
manufacturing capacity is around  850 
MW. Bulk of India’s solar PV industry is dependent on imports of critical raw materials as well as components, including 
silicon wafers. 
Most Indian companies are either 
standalone module companies or standalone cell companies (for example,  Jupiter, Indosolar, Euro Multivision).  
Few companies  are into both cell as well 
as  module production (for example,  Tata Power Solar, Moser Baer, Websol). Presently, some  companies are attempting 
to have their presence in the upstream 
wafer manufacturing and poly-silicon production, but the capacities are insignificant and projects are met with  delays. Due to  lack of integration, Indian 
companies do not have the leverage to 
keep their manufacturing costs down. The top Chinese manufacturing companies alone have a  module and cell production 
capacity more than the total  installed 
capacity in India. Due to this  scale, these large  companies are able to reduce their 
unit costs by significant levels. 
Solar modules have been priced 
aggressively in the global market, below the level which can be supported by the domestic manufacturers, resulting in 
under- utilisation of domestic capacity. 
The huge capacity build-up by Chinese manufacturers resulted in serious demand-supply imbalance in the global 
PV market. Over 50 solar PV companies 
announced bankruptcy or exit the solar market globally (key players include Bosch, Siemens, Q Cells, Solyandra,  Siemens, Abound Solar, Conergy, etc.).
Transforming India into a solar energy 
hub will  include a leadership role in low-cost, high quality solar manufacturing, including balance of system components.
Conducive policy initiatives: A boost 
to India’s manufacturing sector is required given the competitive global manufacturing market, positioning India as a manufacturing hub requires 
developmental goals, support from the 
central as well as  state government, enhancement of technology and investment in R&D initiatives, pipeline of 
future projects that gives opportunities for 
domestic manufacturers to compete in the global landscape.
In support of a strong domestic 
manufacturing sector, inspite of policy 
directives and incentives at the central and 
the state level, no large scale development has taken place  in solar photovoltaics and solar thermal manufacturing, largely due 
to the focus on specific segments of the 
ecosystem, like  generation projects.
Domestic solar PV manufacturing capacity (MW)
20008481515
0 500 1000 1500 2000ModulesCellsWafersIngot
Capacity
Source: Market ResearchDomestic manufacturing capacity utilisation (%)
65%20%15%
0% 50%1 00%201020112012
% utlisationYears
CII - Conference on solar power    23Policies stimulating solar 
manufacturing ecosystem
Semiconductor Policy, 2007
The Semiconductor Policy announced 
by the government of India in 2007 provides a special incentive package 
to attract investments for setting up 
semiconductor fabrication and other micro and nanotechnology manufacturing industries. The incentives are for all 
semiconductors not only those exclusive 
to solar photovoltaic’s and solar thermal technology.
A key benefit is the grant of the SEZ status. 
The special incentive package shall be 
available as per the SEZ Policy.
Karnataka Semiconductor Policy 2010
The government of Karnataka through 
the Karnataka Semiconductor Policy 2010 has given an impetus to the growth 
of semiconductor industries in the 
state. The policy specifically encourages and provides assistance to solar PV manufacturing units under the Karnataka 
Renewable Energy Policy. 
Highlights of the policy include the 
following:
• Location of land with access to 
infrastructure such as ports and airports in close proximity; Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) and KREDL also taking steps to 
develop solar farms on JV and PPP 
mode in districts such as Bijapur, Gulbarga, Raichur and Bellary
• Fiscal incentives to micro, small, 
medium manufacturing enterprises 
(MSMEs)
• Exemption of stamp duty for MSME, large, mega projects (100% for Zone 1 and Zone 2; 75% for Zone 3)
• Exemption from entry tax (ET) (100% exemption from payment on plant and machinery, capital goods, for the first three years from the commencement of project implementation; on raw materials, inputs, component parts 
and consumables for five years from 
the commencement of commercial  production)
• Interest subsidy for micro 
manufacturing enterprises: interest at 
5% on term loan 
• Hundred per cent exemption of electrical duty and tax for three to five years Types of unit Threshold NPV of 
investmentsIncentives in SEZ Incentives in non SEZ
Fab unit 2500 crore INR 20% of capital expenditure25% of capital expenditure + exemption from countervailing duty
Eco system unit1000 crore INR 20% of capital expenditure25% of capital expenditure + exemption from countervailing duty
Andhra Pradesh Electronic Hardware 
Policy 2012-2017
Andhra Pradesh has instituted a policy to 
promote electronics, including solar PV modules and cells.
Highlights of the policy are as follows:
• Hundred per cent reimbursement 
of stamp duty, transfer duty and registration fee paid on sale, lease 
deeds, mortgages and hypothecations 
on the first transaction  
• Two and a half per cent reimbursement of stamp duty, 
transfer duty and registration fee 
paid on sale, lease deeds, mortgages and hypothecations on the second transaction  
• Admissibility of industrial power category tariff 
• Four and a half per cent to micro, 40% to small, 25% to medium and 10% 
to large-scale industry limited to 30 
lakh INR of power subsidy on power bills for a period of five years from the date of commencement of commercial operations 
• Reimbursement and grant of 50% exhibition subsidy for participating in national and international exhibitions limited to 9 sq m space 
• Twenty per cent investment subsidy limited to 20 lakh INR for micro and small industries and additional 5% incentive subsidy for women, SC, ST entrepreneurs  
• Three per cent interest rebate limited to 5 lakh INR per year for five years  
• Ten per cent subsidy on new capital equipment for technology 
upgradation limited to 25 lakh INR 
as one-time availment by the eligible company • Fifty per cent subsidy on the expenses incurred for quality certification limited to 4 lakh INR [Conformity European (CE),China, Compulsory Certificate (CCC), UL Certification, 
ISO, CMM Certification, SA, RU, etc]
• Twenty-five per cent subsidy on 
cleaner and green production measures limited to 10 lakh INR 
• Hundred per cent tax reimbursement of VAT and CST, for the new units started after the date of issue of this policy, for a period of five years from the date of commencement of 
production for products made in AP 
and sold in AP 
• Twenty-five per cent rebate in land cost limited to 10 lakh INR in 
industrial estates, industrial parks, 
SEZs, hubs, parks and clusters 
• Fifty per cent reimbursement and grant of cost involved in skill upgradation and training the local 
manpower limited to 2,000 INR per 
person
Tamil Nadu Solar Policy 2012
Tamil Nadu Solar Policy provides added incentives to attract and encourage solar manufacturing in the state. The policy 
states that capacity of about 1000 MW/
annum of local manufacturing will result in direct and indirect job creation. Highlights of incentives are as follows:
• Appropriate tax incentives as per 
Tamil Nadu Solar Policy 
• Creation of solar manufacturing ecosystem that includes solar research centres, test facilities,  resource 
assessment facilities 
• Exclusive solar manufacturing parks 
in the state and preference in existing industrial SEZsIndian government incentives for semiconductors
24 PwCIn sum, support to manufacturing is 
important to set the platform for solar power to play an important role in 
meeting energy security and clean energy 
considerations of India. Domestic content requirement in JNNSM Phase II Batch I for 375 MW by the government of India 
is seen as an encouragement for local 
manufacturers. Yet, the need of the hour is to ramp up domestic manufacturing facilities in for the next few years. 
Further upstream, cells, wafers and poly-
silicon will not see much growth unless 
there is strong drive from the government through policy and regulatory support. In addition, the state governments can 
identify potential sites for developing solar 
parks with basic infrastructure in place.
Key areas that policies can look into 
include:
• Priority sector lending status for 
solar manufacturing, to promote 
investment in manufacturing and access to debt funding
• Access to lower cost funds to improve 
the cost competitiveness of the 
domestic players
• Provision of land and suitable infrastructure including reliable power supply to house the entire 
manufacturing eco-system (wafers, 
cells, modules and balance of systems).Building projects based on 
sustainable technology choices
With increase in retail tariffs and decrease 
in solar panel costs, solar projects are becoming cost-competent to retail 
supply tariff in selective states, but to be 
commercially viable, technology should achieve higher efficiency levels at current cost, maximize generation from existing 
capacities and should improve operations 
and management practices. 
Technology selection best suited 
to the requirement
The best technology for a solar power 
plant depends on the specific application and the requirement. A broad variety of 
technologies is expected to continue to 
characterise the technology portfolio, depending on the specific requirements and economics of the applications–tariff 
structure, meteorological conditions, 
land availability, evacuation levels, future aspirations of policymakers and others. 
Crystalline vis-à-vis thin film technology: 
Both crystalline as well as thin-film 
technologies have gained significant 
traction in the last few years and have come out as proven technologies. In India, both the technologies have fairly equal 
installations. In the Indian environment, 
the effect of dust, soiling, climate and degradation are crucial factors for the success of any technology. 
Solar thermal technology: Concentrated 
solar power (CSP) is advantageous in 
that it is utility scalable technology, is dispatchable and is firm RE option. With the inherent energy storage capability 
in the form of heat that can be used to 
generate electricity up to hours later and with further support from additional thermal storage systems or a hybrid system design, CSP plants can continue to 
produce stable electricity even when cloud 
block the sun or the sun sets. So it is much less challenging to integrate CSP than wind or PV generation into power systems. 
Although CSP has better performance 
for grid integration, but is relatively challenging technology and current high cost limit its large-scale deployment. One disadvantage of CSP is that it requires 
strong direct sunlight. As a result, 
adequate CSP resources are generally limited to semi-arid, hot regions or deserts. In particular, India does not have 
conducive ecosystem for the development 
of CSP because very less projects have been undertaken with this technology. Solar trackers: Optimising the energy 
produced and making the most of scarce 
resources such as land have become increasingly important as developers look for higher profit. Solar trackers 
which move the panels to follow the 
trajectory of the sun can increase solar power production by up to 25% compared to a fixed-tilt system. Projects based on trackers have been implemented in India 
under the JNNSM scheme and it is to be 
seen with further localisation how IPPs and developers will deploy projects based on trackers with programmes demanding 
higher PLF.
A vertical integration in the 
manufacturing process, from sand to module, lowers the production cost. India today does not have this advantage and is largely dependent on imports for crucial materials such as silicon wafers, encap-sulating material and high transmission glass. The key challenge is the imposition of import duty on input items in the manufacturing process of solar cell and modules, where-as there is no import duty on finished solar equipment (solar modules).To make the country a manu-facturing hub, policy must decide its objective: to drive a market that is import driven or create a robust domestic manufacturing base.Concentrated solar power (CSP) could have a unique role in India’s energy mix with its potential be hybrid and its ability to easily add storage could unlock dispatchable  and base-load power, setting the stage for larger renewable energy penetration.
Localisation: A solution to the 
manufacturing sector for solar 
power generators 
Capital costs of solar installations 
have fallen drastically in the last five years. This has seen many states adopt 
the technology. Economies of scale, 
technological innovation and the learning curve affect the attempt to drive costs further down.
It may be noted that within the overall 
system costs, the proportion of non-
module system costs is increasing. In 
fact, the cost reduction possibilities in the non-module segment of system costs could well determine the timing of grid parity. 
The cost reduction trends for non-module 
system costs can be achieved through low-cost financing, local sourcing of materials, localised assembly and production of 
invertors. 
CII - Conference on solar power    25Accelerating R&D initiatives to 
make technology competitive 
With the aim of achieving further 
significant cost reductions and efficiency improvements, R&D is predicted to 
continuously progress in improving 
existing technologies and developing new technologies. Currently, innovation in the solar sector is happening in developed 
parts of the world such as the US and 
Europe. Slowdown in Europe will reduce further innovation. The US has been able to identify a significant amount of shale gas reserves which can be made 
commercially available at around 3 USD 
per mmbtu. There is less incentive for them to invest in solar which is relatively costlier than the newly found shale gas 
reserves. On the other hand, India which 
is struggling to source coal and gas required for conventional power plants has to depend on imports and has no 
option but to get the most out of wind, 
solar and other renewable technologies. 
The country needs to support and gain 
leadership in terms of innovation in solar technologies. 
R&D for the indigenisation of 
technology and quality standards for both manufacturing as well as solar 
project implementation most suited to 
India should be undertaken to focus on optimising energy generation from existing devices and applications, reducing integration and other plant BOS costs, 
and improving efficiency of generation 
devices. 
Considering solar can provide options 
for storage, the focus should also be 
on developing cost-effective storage 
technologies which would address both variability and storage constraints, through the use of better and improved materials.  
It may be noted that the Indian Institute 
of Science (IISc), Bangalore and the 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Golden, Colorado, USA have undertaken the project for SERIIUS, the Solar Energy Research Institute for India 
in order to accelerate the development of 
solar electric technologies by lowering the cost per watt of photovoltaics (PV) and concentrated solar power (CSP). There 
needs to be increase in such initiatives 
and efforts in order to commercialise such developments.Effective operation and 
maintenance
Like any other project, solar power 
projects require higher plant uptime to consistently operate at peak performance. 
System monitoring, preventive 
maintenance, maintenance of critical spares and addressing repairs are crucial for a plant owner, to reduce downtime and 
derive maximum value over the lifetime of 
the installation. 
Operating a solar plant entails managing a 
broad variety of elements including plant performance and reliability, safety and risks, spares and receivables, generation 
guarantees and warranty enforcement. 
As we understand, maintenance regimes 
play a critical role in solar power projects. While corrective maintenance regimes 
remain common in practice, preventive 
and condition based maintenance strategies represent a growing trend. It’s estimated that by usage of Tier 1 module 
supplier for development of solar project 
can increase the generation upto 15%.  
In India, realising this critical aspect, 
some IPPs and EPCs have invested in 
house teams in order to standardise O&M 
practices across their facility portfolios and are working to systematise remote monitoring and efficiently identify, diagnose and resolve problems across a 
wide portfolio of systems.
As the solar industry struggles with the 
uncertainty in panel pricing, it is turning to the optimisation of system energy 
output in order to make the economic 
case for solar power projects an attractive investment.
Source: SunPowerRange of improvement in output through O&M
26 PwCSecuring and diversifying 
the energy mix by distributed generation 
Distributed generation (DG) refers 
to electricity produced at or near the point of consumption. For a large and 
dispersed rural based country like India, 
decentralised power generation systems offers a better solution.
Distributed solar energy can be located on 
rooftops or ground-mounted, and typically 
connected to the local utility distribution grid, thereby avoiding transmission and distribution costs. Solar PV is ideal for small-scale projects, and also for places 
without access to electric grid.
Government policy initiatives
The government of India has adopted 
an integrated energy policy which aims to provide energy security to all its 
citizens through conventional as well as 
alternative sources of energy. Some of the policies adopted by the Indian government are as follows.
• The Electricity Act, 2003 has given 
a thrust to distributed generation particularly in the context of rural electrification. The Act specifies distributed generation and supply 
through stand-alone conventional and 
renewable energy systems.
• The National Electricity Policy recommends under the rural 
electrification component, that to 
provide a reliable rural electrification system, wherever conventional grid is not feasible, decentralised distributed generation facilities (using 
conventional or non-conventional 
sources of energy) together with local distribution network be provided.
• Two specific schemes, the Rajiv 
Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojna 
and the Remote Village Electrification Scheme, will provide up to 90% capital subsidy for rural electrification projects using decentralised 
distributed generation options 
based on conventional and non-conventional fuels.• The JNNSM policy document mentions implementation of 2 GW of solar rooftop installations by 2022.  JNNSM Phase II also promotes off-grid solar 
especially for improved energy access 
for remote areas, encouragement of  heating and cooling applications, replacement of diesel and kerosene, distributed generation, industrial 
process heat applications, solar water 
irrigation pumping systems, etc. The policy target is as follows:
 – Twenty thousand villages, hamlets, 
bastis and padas to be electrified 
by deployment of off-grid electricity generation projects
 – Deployment of around 10 lakh off-grid lighting systems
 – Development of solar cities as well as inclusion of more 
 – Deployment of 25,000 solar pumps by the end of FY 2017 
 – Deployment of around 25,000 solar integrated telecom towers
 – Target of 15 to 20 cities where solar water heaters will become the main source of heating water 
replacing electric geysers
• SECI is  promoting rooftop programme 
by conducting competitive bidding has already allotted 5.5 MW in four cities  
in the Phase I of the rooftop 
programme in April 2013. The SECI has also invited bidders to take part in the allocation process for 11.1 MW in six cities in Phase II. The bidder has to 
quote a cost in INR/Wp terms based on 
which the SECI will provide a capital subsidy of 30%.
• MNRE also promotes off-grid through 
subsidy schemes where it provides  
30% of capital subsidy of the benchmark costs for rooftop applications (100 MW a year), and also through ’solar cities’ which aim 
to reduce 10% of city dependence on 
conventional energy at the end of  five years. 
• Distributed generation projects can 
also avail accelerated depreciation 
benefit, wherein they can avail 80% depreciation benefit in the first year  of operation.
CII - Conference on solar power    27• Further, all southern states are 
promoting rooftop and distributed generation projects:
 – The Tamil Nadu Solar Policy aims 350 MW of rooftop capacity in three phases of 100, 125 and 125 MW (per year) during 2013-
2015. Apart from this, the state 
will also implement 300 MW from government buildings and government schemes for rural and urban lighting.
 – Kerala launched its 10,000 rooftop power plants programme for 2012-2013. Apart from the MNRE’s 30% capital subsidy, 
the state is offering a discount 
of 39,000 INR per system. The unique aspect of the programme is that the policy support is completely for off-grid PV 
systems, whereas all other 
programmes in the country have opted for a grid-tied system.
 – The KREDL along with the SECI 
is implementing 1297 numbers of 
0.5kW and 646 numbers of 1kW grid connected rooftop systems in Karnataka.  
 – Andhra Pradesh has also 
announced its intention of 
promoting rooftop solar systems through a net-metering mechanism. NEDCAP, the state 
nodal agency is also helping in 
bringing awareness for solar distributed generation, solar lanterns, etc.
Need to prioritise in-situ 
generation for self-consumption 
with a net-metering approach
Countries such as the US, Japan and 
Germany have high rooftop solar installations and are estimated to meet 
as high as 20% of their total electricity 
requirement from solar rooftops. 
States such as Gujarat and Karnataka 
have been promoting solar rooftops with 
feed-in-tariffs. Cities are experimenting 
with policies to encourage distributed solar to offset peak electricity demand and stabilise the local grid through rooftops. Though it puts the additional 
challenge of monitoring and verification 
on distribution utilities, states have now come up with the solar rooftop policy of self-consumption with net metering policy 
to help the seamless integration of the 
technology with the grid. With net-metering, consumers can install rooftop PV and first use the solar generation for their own consumption, and feed in only excess rooftop PV 
generation into the utility grid. They will 
continue to draw their power requirement from the grid as and when needed. Consumers with high tariffs and high energy use will benefit most from it. Bill 
savings from such avoided costs will 
determine the viability of rooftop PV with net metering.
Rooftop and decentralised generation 
projects with net-metering support allow 
southern states to deal with a high-deficit situation apart from offering other benefits:
• Decentralised generation can be set 
up in various sizes by retail, industrial 
or commercial consumers as rooftops for captive consumption and sale of excess power through net metering.    
 – Consumers can also get relief from R&C measures and load shedding by establishing decentralised solar projects in states such as Tamil Nadu and 
Andhra Pradesh. 
 – Solar generation is higher in 
summer when the power deficit is generally high and is more 
predictable than other infirm 
renewable energy sources.
• Decentralised generation can also help to meet demand in remote locations and villages, where grid 
connected power is not available. 
These solutions can especially benefit agricultural consumer in rural areas.
• Decentralised generation gets 
consumed locally without significant 
T&D losses. This helps offset transmission and distribution equipment needed to deal with new load behaviour and rising electricity 
demand (e.g. congestion). 
• Solar heating solutions can displace 
some electricity and fossil fuel based heating solutions. Distributed solar 
system can decrease the dependency 
on diesel gen-sets, which are used by most industries connected to grid power due to unreliability use.
• It reduces land otherwise required for 
utility sized project.Need for a robust, coordinated 
and inclusive approach  
Given the immense market potential 
of rooftop and distributed generation applications, an integrated approach that involves seamless collaboration among partners across the value chain is important. The following will need specific 
focus:
• National Building Codes need to have 
the framework for the establishment of green buildings, in order to make it 
mandatory for buildings to implement 
solar application with proper standards and guidelines. 
• Until now, the most preferred route for distributed solar PV has been the 
corporate financing route. However, 
with the expected large-scale adoption of captive solar PV power plants, both project finance and asset 
finance routes can be expected to 
come into place.
• Unlike large-scale projects, the decentralised market will require 
solutions that have to be developed 
based on customer requirements and setting up logistical infrastructure to reach the customer. For example, a 
solar rooftop solution that provides 
quality performance at lowest possible costs at the consumer end is the need of the hour.
• Energy-efficient design standards that include building integrated PV (BIPV) into building architecture to generate electricity, allow entry of natural light and provide heat insulation are 
needed. 
• Innovative solutions such as solar 
walls for drying and heating applications in many agro-processing 
industries work both as a standalone 
system as well as a preheat to traditional mechanical operations. 
Such systems reduce our dependence 
on fuelwood or fossil fuels required for drying.
• Standalone, off-grid street lighting with built-in automated controls 
for remote application can provide 
reliable outdoor lighting for streets, villages, open spaces, etc.
28 PwCEnabling frameworks will 
ensure a sustained push for the solar sector 
The developer-centric Indian solar market 
challenges the role of the policy and regulators, leading to an approach that 
has to consider choices at every level of 
the market. The health of the industry can improve if focus is kept on the sector ecosystem.
Given the severe power shortage in 
southern India and R&C measures forcing industrial consumers to look for alternative sources of energy, it is imperative for all four states to encourage 
investments in both grid connected utility 
scale as well as rooftop and decentralised solar energy projects through continuous policy support to encourage innovation in 
the sector.
Solar power projects have come a long 
way what with the cost of solar PV systems considered to be barrier to PV adoption on a decreasing trend and technology 
improvements taking place, they have 
become economically competitive.  As a long-term strategy to develop better and cost competitive technologies, introducing 
solar subsidies may be justified. But 
heavily subsidised projects may not ideally represent a true strategy to replace fossil energy.Effective implementation of 
central and state policies
While the NSM catalyses solar energy 
growth and as the mission steps into Phase 2, appreciation for the unique roles solar PV (utility scale / distributed generation) and CSP can play in the energy mix are key to the development of each technology.
Solar power’s ability to easily achieve 
scale and commissioning timelines coupled with the potential to add storage options can unlock dispatchable and 
base-load power, setting a stage for larger 
penetration if fundamental policy and regulatory measures are undertaken and supported at the state level.
The southern states have introduced 
policies and set optimistic targets for 
capacity addition, but implementation awaits policy directives. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu were expected 
to be the key market drivers for new 
installations in 2014. If PPAs can be signed for the allocated capacities in these three states, the planned capacities can be 
quickly commissioned. Similarly, if policy 
guidelines are implemented effectively, larger interest can be generated among investors.
Initiating steps to improve the 
solar eco-system within the states
Each technology has its own advantages. 
From the context of the Indian market, technology improvement and cost 
reduction can be structured to drive 
primary factors--localisation, economies of scale, manufacturing innovations, R&D and technology improvements, increasing 
efficiency and reducing cost. 
Overall, solar PV system costs are also 
driven by factors such as exchange rate fluctuations and interest rates. With an increase in the cost of imported elements 
in the solar PV system, the impact of any 
exchange rate depreciation will have an adverse impact on overall system costs and the resultant power tariffs. Specific 
localisation support initiatives will reduce 
such exposures.
CII - Conference on solar power    29Enabling the open access market 
While various incentives are offered to 
support solar energy procurement through OA mechanisms, the following aspects 
may be better addressed in order to 
mobilise investments.
• Investors setting up projects for 
the supply of power under OA 
mechanisms are concerned about the 
certainty of applicable OA charges for the life of the projects. Any rapid change in the OA charges or banking facility after commissioning will 
affect the viability of the project. 
Communications regarding certainty of applicable OA charges for the life of the projects can help take investment decisions.Overcoming grid connectivity 
issues
The southern states are facing hurdles 
in obtaining evacuation approvals for large-scale deployment of capacities (solar 
parks). Securing load flow approvals, 
ROW and clearances is causing delays in project execution and increase in the cost for developers. Industry expects 
support from relevant transmission and 
distribution utilities as well as state nodal agencies in creating required evacuation infrastructure.
With southern states facing huge power 
deficits and R&C measures forcing 
industrial consumers to look for alternate sources of energy, the time is right for the solar energy segment to take off. Initially, 
the high cost of solar PV systems was 
considered a barrier to PV adoption but with cost of PV systems decreasing and the cost of diesel fuel increasing, PV systems are becoming economically competitive. 
Also, a significant demand in southern 
states comes from the capital cities where most of the load centres are located. Here, decentralised energy systems can play a 
role in reducing the dependency on grid 
connected power. Thus, a shift of focus towards the use of solar power will help industrial and domestic consumers gain access to power even in peak consumption 
time. • Consumers procuring under third-
party and group captive mechanisms are unable to draw energy during scheduled and unscheduled power-
cuts and when R&C measures are 
imposed. Consumers are required to have dedicated feeders to continue to draw the energy. It is difficult for 
every OA consumer to have dedicated 
feeders. States may structure mechanisms that allow OA consumers to continue drawing energy.
Land and infrastructure
Solar policies of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka state that the responsibility to acquire land for any 
project lies with the developer. Land 
availability being a major challenge for developers, government support in obtaining clearance will be a major 
motivator for developers to set up solar 
plants. Respective governments can endeavour to suitably identify land to be offered to developers and facilitate acquisition for grid connected solar 
installations.

About CII Contact
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain 
an environment conducive to the development of India, partnering industry, government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-
managed organisation, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association has over 7100 members, from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 enterprises from around 257 national and regional sectoral industry bodies.
CII charts change by working closely with government on policy 
issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialized services and strategic global linkages. It also provides a platform for consensus-building and networking on key issues.
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify 
and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civil society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through 
Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus on accountability, transparency and measurement in the corporate and social eco-system, building a knowledge economy, and broad-basing development to help deliver the fruits of progress to all.
With 63 offices, including 10 Centres of Excellence, in India, and seven 
overseas offices in Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international business community.Mahesh Natarajan
Regional DirectorConfederation of Indian Industry
98/1, Velacherry Main Road
Chennai-600 032Email: cii.south@cii.inWebsite: www.cii.in
Merin Devassia
Deputy DirectorConfederation of Indian Industry98/1, Velacherry Main Road
Chennai-600 032
Email: merin@cii.in Website: www.cii.in
About PwC Contact
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re 
looking for. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, 
Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member 
firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcKameswara Rao
Executive Director, Leader, Energy, Utilities and Mining
Phone: +91-40-6624 6688
Email: kameswara.rao@in.pwc.com
Sunil Kumar
Associate Director, Energy and Utilities
Phone: +91-40-6624 6203
Email: sunil.kumar@in.pwc.com
Sathish Kamalanabhan
Manager, Energy and Utilities
Phone: +91-80-4079 4042
Email: sathish.kamalanabhan@in.pwc.com
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents 
of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained 
within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited 
liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 127 - November 2013 CII - Conference on solar power.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
