Title: pwc_north-east_summit-2013
Date Published: 2013-01-07 16:42:51+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_north-east_summit-2013.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

India’s North-East
Diversifying Growth 
Opportunities
www.pwc.com/in
INDIAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
2 ICC - PwC Report
To be socially, and economically sustainable, India’s growth story needs to be inclusive. 
However, the country’s north east has been experiencing a comparatively slower pace of 
industrialisation and socio-economic growth. Though the region is blessed with abundant 
natural resources for industrial development and social development, they have not been 
utilised to their full potential.
The region has certain distinct advantages. It is strategically located with access to the 
traditional domestic market of eastern India, along with proximity to the major states in the 
east and adjacent countries such as Bangladesh and Myanmar. The region is also a vantage 
entry point for the South-East Asian markets. The resource-rich north east with its expanses 
of fertile farmland and a huge talent pool could turn into one of India’s most prosperous 
regions. Yet, owing to its unique challenges, we believe that conventional market-based 
solutions may not work here, given the issues related to poor infrastructure and connectivity, 
unemployment and low economic development, law and order problems, etc.
The government and the private sector need to collaborate and take the lead in providing 
solutions to these problems. More reform needs to be initiated in a range of areas, such as 
investment in agriculture, hydel power, infrastructure as well as in creating new avenues of 
growth through the development of vertically integrated food processing chains, market-
linked skill development and cross-border trade. 
As multiple avenues for growth and development emerge, it is of paramount importance 
that the region, as a collective identity, embarks on a vibrant journey to realise the dreams 
of a better future. This vision can be realised only through the combined effort of all 
stakeholders. This report delineates these opportunities and attempts to provide new 
insights to the ongoing interventions to raise the north east of India to higher levels of 
inclusive economic development.Foreword
Mr Rajiv Mundhra
President
Indian Chamber of CommercePartha Kundu
Executive Director, Consulting
PwC India
Introduction
ConclusionDemographics and social 
infrastructure
Agriculture
Opportunities for 
investment in agriculture 
and food processing
Physical 
infrastructurePower
Skill development
Border trade
Conclusion
Bibliography
List of acronyms05
05
06
07
0810
11
14
16
17
17
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            5Introdu ction
India’s north east region (NER) is endowed with huge 
untapped natural resources and is acknowledged as the 
eastern gateway for the country’s ‘Look East Policy’. 
The region is witnessing a series of insurgencies and is 
alienated from the economic resurgence that the rest of 
the country is experiencing. The World Bank describes 
conditions in the region as a low-level equilibrium of 
poverty, non-development, civil conflict and lack of faith in 
political leadership.
The states comprising the NER, while unique in most 
respects, have similar economic and geographical attributes 
that merits special policy interventions. 
However, in spite of being endowed with vast natural 
resources in terms of forests, biological diversity, hydro-
electricity, the region has remained largely underdeveloped. 
A key constraint to the growth has been poor infrastructure 
and limited connectivity, both within the region as well as 
with the rest of the country. The region, connected to the 
rest of India by a narrow stretch of land called the ‘chicken’s 
neck’, needs infrastructure to support and ensure significant 
investments and developmental aids. 
Exploitation of the large hydro potential in the NER could 
be used for exporting to the power deficit northern and 
western regions of the country. The spill-over benefits for 
the region will be the development of infrastructure such 
as roads, communications, and electricity supply to remote 
hilly areas, resulting in better quality of life.
 The improvement in power generation will in turn help in 
establishing lead industries (e.g., cement) by annulling the 
effects of high transportation costs. This in turn will help 
in skilling workers in modern industry oriented production 
activities and address the gap in the ready availability of an 
industrial workforce in the region.
Opening up and augmenting trade with the neighbouring 
countries such as Bangladesh,Myanmar and through 
Myanmar to South East Asia will also help in realising the 
full potential of the region.
Considering that development of any kind, particularly 
infrastructure, in this part of India will be associated 
with socio-political issues such as land acquisition and 
displacement of people, the policy and aids of the central 
and state governments should address these issues to 
accelerate the completion of developmental projects.
Recently, the government has taken several steps to 
overcome these infrastructural bottlenecks to induce 
sustainable development in the region. The strong focus on 
roads, airports and hydropower developments are some of 
the key steps in this direction.Based on this framework, the report tries to give a low-
down on the development of specific actions and policy 
improvements towards corrective measures as follows:
• To enhance the region’s capacity through appropriate 
policy framework with an eye on the ASEAN markets 
• To highlight the need for infrastructure and capacity 
building measures and focus on policies to create 
enabling environments for the export market 
• To identify potential areas for future investment and 
product development based on regional comparative 
advantages
Demographics and 
Social infrastructure
The region comprises eight states-Arunachal Pradesh, 
Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura 
and Assam. Occupying 8% of India’s geographical spread, 
the states are home to only 4% of the country’s population, 
while Assam accounts for 68% of the population. 
The region stands way below in comparison with the rest of 
India in socio-economic indicators. As per the 2001 census, 
the annual per capita income of NER is 6,625 INR against 
the rest of India average of 10,254 INR. Nearly 34.28% of 
the population is below poverty line as compared to the 
national average of 26.1%. However, the NER is a highly 
literate region. Except for Arunachal Pradesh, all the other 
states have literacy rates about or above national average 
of 64.8% which provides a good pool of educated human 
resources in the region.
All the eight states have different developmental prospects 
and resources to support their efforts in contributing to the 
regional as well as national economy. A critical appraisal of 
the key economic indicators along with a detailed sketch of 
the individual strengths of the seven states is necessary to 
achieve a holistic framework to target growth in the region.
6 ICC - PwC ReportAgriculture
The region is endowed with a varied topography and 
agro-climactic conditions which offer vast potential 
for agriculture, horticulture and forestry. However, the 
region is lagging in agricultural development contrary to 
the national ethos. Reasons include a lack of appropriate 
strategies for the development of natural resources, 
inadequate infrastructure facilities and low adoption of 
improved technology.
The region, which is heavily dependent on the 
agriculture sector, needs a green revolution to eradicate 
poverty and boost its economy. Such a green revolution 
must be adequately backed by financial institutions, 
marketing functionaries and R&D.
Share of NE states in production of major crops ( 2008-09)
NE state Rice Wheat Cereals Pulses Food grains Oil seeds
Prod Share(%) Prod Share(%) Prod Share(%) Prod Share(%) Prod Share(%) Prod Share(%)
Arunachal 
Pradesh163.9 0.17 5.2 0.01 77.7 0.19 9.0 0.06 255.8 0.11 30.5 0.11
Assam 4008.5 4.04 54.6 0.07 15.4 0.04 64.5 0.44 4143.0 1.77 137.9 0.50
Manipur 397.0 0.40 - - 11.5 0.03 6.5 0.04 415.0 0.18 0.7 0.00
Meghalaya 203.9 0.21 0.7 0.00 27.8 0.07 3.9 0.03 236.3 0.10 7.1 0.03
Mizoram 46.0 0.05 - - 9.3 0.02 3.6 0.02 58.9 0.03 2.5 0.01
Nagaland 345.1 0.35 2.1 0.00 127.3 0.32 39.7 0.27 514.2 0.22 71.5 0.26
Sikkim 21.7 0.02 7.8 0.01 66.2 0.17 11.8 0.08 107.5 0.05 7.4 0.03
Tripura 627.1 0.63 1.2 0.00 2.0 0.00 4.4 0.03 634.7 0.27 2.5 0.01
NE Region 5813.2 5.9 71.6 0.1 337.2 0.8 143.4 1.0 6365.4 2.7 260.1 0.9
All India 99182.4 100 80679.4 100 40037.9 100 14566.7 100 234466.4 100 27719.0 100
Note: Production in thousand tonnes
Share  % share in all India production
Source : Agricultural Statistics at a Glance, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India.Current scenario
Agriculture provides livelihood to 70% of the region’s 
population. In Mizoram, around 51% of the population 
lives in rural areas and is dependent on agriculture. The 
figure in Sikkim is high at 89%. However, the pattern of 
agricultural growth has remained uneven across regions. 
The states continue to be net importers of food grains 
even for their own consumption.
Forest cover 2011
States Geographical area Forest cover % Forest cover
Aruanchal 83743 67410 80.5%
Assam 78438 27673 35.3%
Manipur 22327 17090 76.5%
Meghalaya 22429 17275 77.0%
Mizoram 21081 19117 90.7%
Nagaland 16579 13318 80.3%
Sikkim 7096 3359 47.3%
Tripura 10486 7977 76.1%
NER 262179 173219 66.1%
All India 3287263 692027 21.1%
Area in Sq Km
Source: Forest Survey of IndiaThis is due to the limited land available for agriculture. The 
region has a forest cover of more than 66.1% (ranging from 
35.3% in Assam to 90.7% in Mizoram) against the national 
average of 21.1%. Even though, it accounts for about 8% of 
the total geographical area of the country, it has only 3.4% of 
land for agricultural purposes (CMIE, 2007). It contributes 
only 2.8% to the total agricultural production, underscoring 
the low productivity of the region (RBI, 2005).
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            7Rubber and bamboo are among the important agricultural 
produces which can attract a lot of investment 
opportunities. Tripura is the chief production hub and has 
been declared as the ‘second rubber capital of India’ right 
after Kerala by the Indian Rubber Board. The state has 
the potential to produce 10,000 hectares of rubber (the 
available plantation area is 35,760 hectares). Other rubber 
producing states in the region are Mizoram and Assam. 
Coupled with the fact that globally India ranks third in the 
production and fourth in the consumption of rubber creates 
a huge market for investors. The NE states also produce a 
substantial percentage of bamboo, accounting for 65% of 
India’s production value and 20% of the global production 
value. Mizoram alone contributes to around 40% of the 
country’s bamboo production. While India’s bamboo market 
is expected to grow to 5.5 billion USD by 2015, the UN’s 
Industrial Development Organisation estimates the NE’s 
bamboo production to grow up to 1.25 billion USD  in the 
same period.
The region’s comparative advantages in producing fruits, 
vegetables and other horticulture products can be tapped 
by setting up small-scale processing units for the local 
market which will also boost rural employment. This 
set-up is economically viable as well as doable as a small 
processing unit requires little capital. The region produces 
a large amount of spices such as chillies, gingers, mustard 
seeds, fruits and vegetables which can be processed and 
marketed locally. 
Arunachal Pradesh has taken up the cultivation of 
horticulture produce especially of sub-tropical fruits 
on a large scale with assistance from the government. 
In Mizoram, which accounts for 12% of the total fruits 
produced in the north east, a special purpose vehicle 
(SPV) has been formed with private sector companies 
to set up a plant for the processing of turmeric, ginger, 
chilly, fruits and other horticulture products. In Manipur, 
organic farming is the most sought-after practice in the 
hill areas. The state government has given special impetus 
to farming for pineapple, passion fruit, mushroom, etc. on a massive scale. With proper processing, many of the 
agri-horticultural crops of the state look promising for 
export. Another focus area for the agro based industry is 
the processing for extracts of spices, medicinal and herbal 
plants. The state government has established a food park at 
Nilakuthi with a project cost of 6.6 million USD. This park 
will provide common facilities like cold storage, warehouse, 
quality control laboratories, packaging, tool room, power 
and water supply, sewerage treatment, etc. The Nagaland 
Food Private Limited (NFPL) established in the Dimapur 
Industrial Estate specializes in bamboo shoot processing, 
pineapple, passion fruit and orange juice processing. The 
food and meat processing sector also provides immense 
potential for investment in the state. The Nagaland 
Industrial Development Corporation has received approval 
for developing an agro and food processing SEZ in Dimapur.
There is also scope for dairy processing and poultry, 
fishery processing in the region. There is huge demand for 
dried fish in the region, processing of which is not capital 
intensive. The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), 
which has extensive experience in mobilising producers 
in milk, vegetables as well as other areas, could play a key 
enabling role in this process. Increase in milk production 
will encourage the milk, butter and cheese processing 
industry in the region.
Private entrepreneurs need to be encouraged to set up 
storage, distribution and marketing infrastructure such as 
a cold storage chain along major arterial highways. This 
will help exploit the horticulture potential of the region 
and bring perishables speedily to marketing hubs. For cold 
chain operations, a public-private partnership (PPP) or 
lease could also be explored. Similar initiatives can already 
be seen in Meghalaya and Mizoram where flowers are being 
distributed outside the region by a private distributor, 
Zopar, which also supplies seed varieties to farmers.
Constraints
In spite of the efforts of the MOFPi and regional 
development organizations such as the NeDFI, challenges 
remain in realizing the full potential of the region’s 
agricultural resources. Fragmented land holdings by small 
and marginal farmers which dominate the landholding 
pattern in the north east is uneconomical. The region has 
low proportion of irrigated area and investment in building 
irrigation capacity has been insufficient and ineffective. 
The use of agricultural inputs in the north east is also 
low compared to the rest of the country. Fertilisers used 
per hectare during 2010-11 were negligible in the region, 
especially in Nagaland (2.35 kg), Arunachal Pradesh (3.01 
kg); and ranged between 13 kg in Meghalaya and 63 kg in 
Assam compared to the national average of 135.27 kg per 
hectare. Also the share of agriculture in total electricity 
used is just under 1% in all the north-eastern states, except 
Tripura (7.41%), as against the national average of 20.43%.Opportunities for 
investment in agriculture 
and food processing
8 ICC - PwC ReportPhysical infrastructure
Roads and railways
Road is an important mode of travel in the hilly areas as 
other mode of travel is either too expensive or difficult. 
The road infrastructure is relatively deficient in the NER 
although the region’s road density per capita is significantly 
higher as compared to the rest of the country. Given the low 
density of population and the hilly terrain of the region this 
is an expected outcome. The road length per unit area is 
higher only in Nagaland, Assam, and Tripura.
Road density, 2008
States Road density per 
1000 sq KmRoad density per 
1000 population
Arunachal 196.96 13.77
Assam 2936.51 7.83
Manipur 739.11 6.98
Meghalaya 438.67 3.89
Mizoram 292.11 6.35
Nagaland 1345.32 10.27
Sikkim 263.95 3.17
Tripura 3026.23 9.09
India 965.73 2.77
Source: 1.Material supplied by TRW,M/o Road Transport & 
Highways
2.Annual Report,published by M/o Road Transport & 
Highways
* Excludes roads constructed under JRY and PMGSY
Road lengths (km)
India: 2011-12
States Arunachal 
PradeshAssam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura
National highways 1,992 2,836 959 810 927 494 62 400
State highways -- 3,134 668 1,134 259** 404** 186 689
Major district roads 12,169 4,413 964 1,219 -- 2,387 1,720 90
Rural roads* 5,455 1,88,850 6,305 1,569 1,972 22,095 2,326 16,415
Urban roads* 33 6,664 210 110 325 98 162 280
Project roads* 1,088 8,493 -- 940 35 269 5 1,346
Sources: Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, CMIE  States of India
**2007-08 data
* 2010-11 dataTo address this The Ministry of Road Transport and 
Highways (Morth) has been paying special attention to 
the development of national highways in the region. The 
ministry has earmarked 10% of the total allocation for the 
NE region. The total length of NHs in the region is 8,480 
km and these are being developed and maintained by three 
agencies-the state Public Works Departments, Border Road 
Organization (BRO) and National Highway authority of 
India (NHAI). Of the total length of 8,480 km, about 2,118 
km is with the BRO and 5,409 km is with the respective state 
PWDs. The remaining length of 953 km is with the NHAI. 
There has also been a special thrust in building the road 
infrastructure. Sufficient funds have also been allocated in 
building the road infrastructure in the NE states. The states 
have 2,473 km of NHs, 5,711 km of state highways, and 
15,154 km of major district roads. The states have funds 
(from various agencies such as Asian Development Bank, 
etc.) to upgrade the worn out state roads.
In most NE states, village and district roads are dominant. 
These roads are particularly important for facilitating intra-
state movement of people and freight. 
A snapshot of the road lengths in the various states of the 
region is as follows:
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            9The major road programmes that are being undertaken in the 
region are as follows: 
1. National Highway Development Programme (NHDP)-
II proposes to link the east-west corridor beginning at 
Porbandar, Gujarat to the NE through a 678 km four-lane 
highway connecting Silchar to Srirampur via Lumding-
Daboka-Nagaon-Guwahati in Assam. This has been 
entrusted to the NHAI under the NHDP phase-II. 
2.  NHDP-III proposes to widen 1,051 km stretches of various 
NHs to improve connectivity of state capital towns.
National Highway Development Programme III
NH No. State Stretch Length
36/39 Assam/Nagaland Daboka-Dimapur 124
39 Naaland/Manipur Kohima-Imphal 140
44 Meghalya/Assam Shillong-Churaibari 252
54 Assam & Mizoram Silchar-Aizwal 190
3. The Arunachal package envisages improving the 
connectivity to the Arunachal dramatically. The package 
incorporates the following:
• Construction of public roads to link the hydel power project 
• Four-lane connectivity to Itanagar
• Two-lane connectivity of district headquarters
• Trans-Arunachal highway
4. Special Accelerated Road Development Programme 
for North East (SARDP-NE) Phases ‘A’ and ‘B’ will cover 
construction and improvement of 8,737 km of road length. 
Major objectives of this programme includes providing 
a two-lane NH connectivity to all state capitals with 
East-west corridor, providing connectivity to all district 
headquarter of NER by at least a two-lane road and 
providing inter-connectivity to all the state capitals by at 
least a two-lane NH.
Besides, there is a proposal to connect India and Myanmar 
through a single road running on either side of the borders. 
Earlier, the stretch of road in Myanmar was to start from 
Kaletwa, which will now start from Paletwa. The DPR for 
this new stretch is being prepared. In India, the road is to 
start from Lawngtlai in Mizoram. The technical specification 
of the road has been revised and consequently revised cost 
estimates are being worked out. 
Railways are the best mode of mass transportation in the 
country. However, in the hilly terrains of the NER it is difficult 
and expensive to setup rail networks. This accounts for the 
absence or nominal presence of railway lines in hilly states 
like Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Mizoram. Even in Nagaland and Tripura the railway route has been 
setup in the plain areas of the region.
State-wise density of railways routes in north eastern region 
of India
2009
States/UTs Route 
kilometresArea square 
kilometresRoute kilometres 
per 1000 sq 
kms. of Area
Arunachal 
Pradesh1.26 83743 0.02
Assam 2283.71 78438 29.11
Manipur 1.35 22327 0.06
Meghalaya 0 22429 0
Mizoram 1.5 21081 0.07
Nagaland 12.85 16579 0.78
Sikkim 0 7096 0
Tripura 151.4 10492 14.43
NER 2452.07 262185 9.35
India 64014.88 3287869 19.47
Source : Rajya Sabha Unstarred 
Question No. 1467, dated on 06.08.2010.
In the Rail Budget 2012-13, a survey for railway 
electrification project has been sanctioned for Assam. It also 
envisaged bringing the northern banks of the Brahmaputra 
river under rail connectivity. Tripura is another state in the 
NER where development of railway infrastructure is picking 
up well. From 2000 to 2010, the length of railway route in 
Tripura has increased from 41 km to 152 km. There are three 
major railway stations located in Dharmanagar, Agartala and 
Kumarghat. The government has proposed a 14 km metre 
gauge railway line between Agartala (Tripura) and Akhaura 
(Bangladesh). In addition, there is a proposed railway-link 
to be developed between Agartala and Sabroom, covering 
110 km and expected to be complete by 2014.In Arunachal, 
the nearest railway station is location at Harmoti in Assam 
33 km from Itanagar. The major functional rail head linking 
Manipur with the rest of India is at Dimapur (Nagaland), 215 
km away from Imphal. However, a railway line from Jiribam 
(on the Manipur-Assam border) is under construction 
as a national priority project. It is expected to connect 
Imphal with the rest of India by 2016. New railway lines 
on Azra-Byrnihat, Dudnoi-Mehendipather and Byrnihat-
Shillong routes in Meghalaya are under construction. The 
construction of the extension of a vital broad gauge rail link 
between Bairabi rail terminus on the Mizoram-Assam border 
and Sairang, a village 20 km west of Aizawl, is in progress. In 
Sikkim rail connectivity is being created between Rangpoo 
and Siliguri in West Bengal. A railway track is also to be laid 
for connecting Agartala with Akhaura in Bangladesh.
10 ICC - PwC ReportAirways and waterways 
Inland water transport can be a viable, cost-effective 
alternative in the plain areas of NER given the high cost of 
expanding other mode of transportation. It will also create 
employment opportunities, promote tourism and open up 
inter-country routes for trade and commerce. However, the 
following needs to be done:
• There is a need to improve facilities for night navigation 
and mechanical handling.
• Cargo vessels and terminals should be increased to meet 
the rising demands.
• Emphasis should be on PPPs for the development of 
fairways and infrastructure in IWT.
Major river routes in the NER are the Brahmaputra and the 
Barak in Assam which has a combined navigable length of 
around 1,000 km. In all the NER has about 3,839* km of 
navigable river routes. There are seven operational port 
locations in the state for import and export to the Kolkata 
and Haldia ports. There is an inland container depot (ICD) 
at Amingaon, 10 km from Guwahati, operated by the 
Container Corporation of India Ltd (CONCOR). Waterway 
connectivity between Mizoram and the port of Akyab Sittwe 
is under construction and this could lead to enhanced trade 
opportunities within the country. 
The NE region has one international airport in Guwahati, 
Assam-the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International 
(LGBI) Airport. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) 
plans to make it one of the major international airports, 
connecting Southeast Asia with India. Besides, Assam 
has six domestic airports at Guwahati, Tezpur, Jorhat, 
Dibrugarh, Silchar and North Lakhimpur. During 2011-
12, the Guwahati airport received 2.2 million passengers. 
Mizoram has one operational airport at Lengpui where daily 
air connectivity is available through multiple air carriers. 
In 2009-10, Lengpui airport handled 1,790 aircrafts with 
120,000 passengers. The Shillong airport (Umroi Airport) 
is fully-operational, while the Baljek Airport is under 
construction and upgradation. In Sikkim, the airport 
construction is underway in Pakyong. A greenfield airport 
has been proposed near Itanagar, for which environmental 
clearance has been received in April 2010. The Ministry of 
Civil Aviation has also planned to operationalise airports 
at Daporijo and Tezu in Arunachal. Nagaland has one 
operational airport at Dimapur. A second airport is being 
planned for Kohima.
Under the ‘Look-East Policy’, improved links with 
international neighbours is a priority. Bangladesh, Bhutan, 
Myanmar and TAR should be connected to Guwahati in 
addition to Bangkok. Another international airport for the 
southern part of NER in Agartala can be prioritized.Power
The region is endowed with perennial rivers and water 
bodies, therefore, it has a huge hydroelectricity potential. 
This potential, if tapped well, can be used to export power 
to other regions of the country. The spill-over benefits 
will be the development of infrastructure such as roads, 
communications, and electricity supply to remote hilly 
areas, resulting in better quality of life. States such as 
Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Meghalaya have huge 
potential in hydropower generation.
Identified potential(MW)
Capacity yet to be developed
Many policies such as the  ‘50,000MW hydro initiative’, the 
Hydro Policy 2008 have been formulated by the central 
government to promote investment in hydropower in 
the region. Under the Mega Power Policy, the qualifying 
threshold capacity for setting up hydropower plants in the 
region and for availing the special benefits thereof is 350 
MW, whereas for the rest of the country, it is 500 MW.
Under the Hydro Policy 2008 the project developers in 
the central and state sector can explore the possibility of 
foreign assistance to finance their projects. This assistance 
is already being utilised by NEEPCO for Pare Hydro Electric 
Project and MeSEB for Renovation and Modernisation of 
Umiam II HEP.
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            11As per the ‘North Eastern Industrial and Investment 
Promotion Policy (NEIIPP), 2007’ by Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry, the whole of NER has been declared a SEZ 
and many subsidies, tax exemptions and waivers are offered 
on cost of infrastructure, transport, power, etc. The central 
government is also promoting private sector in the region 
to boost investment in the power sector. About 14,000 
MW has already been allotted to private players in NER for 
development as part of  the ‘50,000 MW hydro initiative’.
Skill development
According to the study on development and employment 
generation potential of the north-eastern states, between 
2011 and 2021, the region will have only 2.6 million jobs. 
And half of this demand will be in Assam alone, which is 
about 1,234,357 jobs. As opposed to the low demand, there 
will also be a supply of 17 million people in 2011-2022, an 
excess of 14 million job seekers.
The region will generate 2.6 million jobs, but the manpower 
supply will be 16.8 million persons. So there is a need 
for a twin approach for developing skills for both local 
employment and for those who seek to migrate.
For this, the North Eastern Council (NEC) and the Ministry 
of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) have 
prepared the ‘Vision 2020’. It envisages the following 
targets by 2020: 
• Overall GSDP growth at a CAGR of 11.64% between 2007-
09 and 2019-20 
• Overall per capita income growth of 12.95% between 2007-
09 and 2019-20 
To support this vision, the Ministry of Development of 
North Eastern Region has formulated a strategic plan 
(2010-16). Following are the highlights of the plan: 
• Building capacities and competencies in critical sectors in 
the region• Preparing a plan of action for building capacities and 
competencies in critical sectors 
• Identifying institutes and organisations for imparting 
training and building capacities in the region 
• Setting up of training institutes in the region in important 
fields through line Ministries, NEC or states 
• Augmenting the capacity of the existing training institutes 
in the north eastern states 
• Using IT as a tool to upgrade skills 
To realise the economic potential the region holds, it 
is imperative to utilise the demographic advantages 
and parameters that will lead to market linked skill 
development. The key thrust areas that evolve from an 
analysis of these parameters are as follows:
• The forest plays a major part in the economies of 
these states. Sadly, the NER forest resources are facing 
degradation and deforestation. Large investment outlays 
for capacity building of knowledge and skills centres 
aimed at preserving the ecology are required. The states 
are unable to address such resource needs. Planned 
outlays in training and awareness for imparting correct 
skills-set to the community for the states to preserve the 
biomass is required. 
• Institutions of higher education focussing on 
environment sciences (viz. forest sciences, social forestry, 
botany, environment and ecology sciences, etc.) need 
to come up for building local community awareness to 
ensure conservation of NER’s forest resources. 
• The agricultural growth has been uneven across NER, 
which comprises 8% of India’s total geographical area but 
produces only 1.5% of the nation’s foodgrains. The NER 
has not been able to benefit from the ‘Green Revolution’ 
as much as the rest of the country. Agriculture, 
horticulture, animal husbandry and fisheries are 
important livelihoods but have low levels of productivity. 
Poor connectivity has compounded the constraints of 
logistics, preservation and distribution of the perishable 
produce. This makes farm prices unremunerative, deters 
the growth of food processing industries, cultivation of 
vegetables and commercialisation of fruits and  spices, 
even with investments in marketing and storage facilities. 
 -Agricultural universities need to encourage research in 
improved cropping and  productivity that will address 
food stockpiling needs for meeting local demand. Equally 
important are the training institutes in food processing.
 -Given the huge reservoirs of oil and gas 
hydrocarbons, there is an opportunity to train the 
local population in trades relating to exploration and 
production of oil and gas.
12 ICC - PwC ReportMatrix mapping resource occurences, economic potential and higher and vocational education opportunities in the region
Source: Re-defining Higher Education in the East, a PwC report
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            13 -The entire region has tremendous potential for 
generating hydro-electric power and there will 
always be demand for engineers and technicians in 
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity.
 -Prospects for this sector’s development are common 
place in almost the entire NER. Therefore, there is a 
need to build up skills-set and human capital in the 
areas of vocational and technical training, sericulture, 
use of modern tools and implements to help provide a 
scientific basis to further enrich traditional skills that 
help produce handloom and handicrafts having unique 
geographical origin. 
 -The rich cultural canvas, the flora and fauna of the 
region calls for a measured policy intervention that 
should aim at preserving and economically exploiting 
the cultural heritage. A growth in tourism will be 
followed by growth in the hospitality sector. This 
region has a large English speaking population that 
finds employment in the hospitality industry across 
India and outside. There are thus opportunities for 
leveraging the local talent by setting up training 
institutes in hospitality and hotel management. 
 -Good English language skills also can find employment 
in call centres and the government can create the 
environment by improving connectivity and adding 
courses in its ITIs for this trade.
Policymakers are finally creating a framework and inviting 
private investors in higher education, filling a glaring 
shortage that has in the past seen students in the region 
migrating to the rest of the country.
The sector has till date received investments to the tune 
of 300 crore INR, and projects worth 200 crore INR are in 
the pipeline. At least three to four private universities are 
looking to soon start operations.
Some of the initiatives are in the public private partnership 
mode. Meghalaya, for instance, has inked a memorandum 
of understanding with the International Finance 
Corporation for starting the Shillong Medical College.
The Assam government, in partnership with the Tata 
Group, while Oil India, is starting the Indian Institute of 
Information Technology and Advanced Sciences (IIITAS). 
Emphasis will be on industry-interface research and 
development relevant to Assam, besides skill development, 
helping the youth of the state to be employable here and 
elsewhere. While the centre will hold a 57.5% stake in the 
project, the state government will hold 35%, and the Tata 
Group and OIL will hold the remaining stake.Incentives to invest 
As per the ‘North Eastern Industrial and Investment 
Promotion Policy (NEIIPP)–2007’ by the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry, the region has been declared as 
special economic zone (SEZ). 
The central government has implemented various schemes 
to attract investors. These are as follows:
• Subsidy at 90% of the transport cost of raw materials 
brought from outside the region as well as the finished 
goods sent from the region to other parts of the country. 
The transport cost between Siliguri (the entry point to 
the north east) and the factory site only is considered for 
subsidy calculations. In addition, subsidy is also available 
at 90% of transport cost on movement of raw materials 
and at 50% of transport cost on movement of finished 
goods from one state to another within the region.
• Income tax exemption for five years for the new industrial 
units set up in the region.
• Growth centres and IIDCs to be converted into total tax 
free zones for the next ten years. Similar benefits will also 
be extended to new industrial units or their substantial 
expansion in other growth centres or IIDCs of industrial 
estates, parks, export promotion zones set up by the 
states. Similar benefits will also be provided to units 
located outside the specified locations, if they belong to 
the specified industries listed in Annexture A of the Indian 
government circular.
• Capital investment subsidy (CIS) at 15% of investment in 
plant and machinery, subject to a maximum ceiling of 30 
lakh INR will be given. Eligibility conditions will be same 
as in case of tax benefits.
• Interest subsidy of 3% on working capital loans will be 
provided for a period of 10 years. Eligibility conditions will 
be same as in case of tax benefit.
• A comprehensive insurance scheme for industrial units to 
be designed, in consultation with GIC and 100% premium 
to be borne by the Indian government for 10 years.
14 ICC - PwC ReportBorder trade
With the emergence of globalisation, economic integration 
among nations has become a necessity. Cross-border trade 
is the most important medium of the current wave of 
globalisation. In this process, knowingly or unknowingly 
the north east economy has emerged in to a new dimension 
of cross-border trade (informal trade) with neighbouring 
nations and that increases social welfare of the poor masses 
of the region. Under the “Look East” policy, India seeks 
economic cooperation with ASEAN and other neighbouring 
countries through the gateway of the region. 
The North East is located at a crossroads between three 
major economies – East Asia, South Asia and Southeast 
Asia. This geopolitical advantage, has however, not really 
translated into the region’s economic development. Despite 
the high growth in India’s trade ties with Southeast Asia 
and China in the recent past, the Northeast’s role has been 
marginal in terms of its contribution to trade and as a 
trade route. The Northeast has not been able to integrate 
and benefit from the various regional and sub-regional 
initiatives that neighbouring countries have created .Out 
of India’s export volume of about $254.4 billion, the 
Northeast’s share is only about $0.01 billion. The Planning 
Commission’s report on North east’s border trade with 
the neighbouring countries’ shows that the region mainly 
exports primary products like boulder stone, limestone, 
fruits, tea, coal etc. Nearly 94 per cent of exports from 
the region consist of tea and coal. On the other hand, 
manufactured goods have a negligible presence in the 
export basket. Even the manufactured goods produced 
in areas other than North East are not very significant in 
official border trade
In order to benefit from the cross border trade initiatives 
industries in the region need to develop goods to be 
exported to the neighbouring countries.  Processing 
industries have to be set up to manufacture quality goods, 
which can be offered in international markets at acceptable 
prices. Infrastructure and connectivity improvements in 
terms of strategic roads to border areas as well as Integrated 
Check Posts and border trade points need to be developed. 
This will also lead to reduced informal trade between NE 
and the neighbouring regions.Trade with Bangladesh 
The World Bank statistics on India’s trade status with 
Bangladesh points out the following interesting facts:
• Over 15% of Bangladeshi imports come from India.
• Bangladesh has a large trade deficit with India; this is 
offset by surpluses with other countries.
• Bangladeshi exports to India receive tariff concessions 
(under SAFTA).
• They account for less than 1% of total India’s imports.
• Illegal trade between the two countries amounts to 3/4 
of regular trade.
Against this backdrop, popular argument in support of 
strengthening economic ties with Bangladesh has been that 
closer ties will be mutually beneficial. Four north-eastern 
states - Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Assam - share 
a 1,880-km border with Bangladesh, and a large number 
of people reside just along the border.Bangladesh needs 
the north east market to sell its products, while the latter 
needs investments. The NE states can capitalise on this and 
bargain for investments in lieu of opening its markets to 
Bangladesh. The country has been maintaining around 6% 
growth consecutively for the past couple of years. It is likely 
to emerge as a middle income country by 2020. Again, 
geographical proximity also makes the region lucrative for 
Bangladesh to invest in areas such as hydelpower, an area in 
which the country has already expressed its interest since it 
will have to invest very less in transportation.
Another argument is that importing goods from Bangladesh 
will be cheaper than products which are brought in to 
the region from other parts of the country as the cost of 
transportation will be minimal. This will implicitly impact 
the lives of the people of the region as the cost of living will 
come down subsequently. 
Bangladesh and India have agreed to set up a number of 
‘Border Haats’ (border markets) along the boundaries, 
which, if opened, are expected to witness bilateral trade 
worth $20 million every year.
India and Bangladesh set up the first such ‘Border Haat’ at 
Kalaichar in West Garo Hills district of Meghalaya last year. 
The border haats or bazaars are to be set up within five km 
on either side of the international border.
The border haats would be allowed to sell local 
agricultural and horticultural products, small agriculture 
and household goods, e.g. spices, minor forest products 
(excluding timber), fresh and dry fish, dairy and poultry 
products, cottage industry items, wooden furniture, 
handloom and handicraft items, etc. No local tax would 
be imposed on the trading, and both Indian as well as 
Bangladeshi currencies will be accepted.
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            15Trade with Myanmar
The Indian government has long identified stronger ties 
with neighbouring countries, and especially Myanmar 
has been identified as the key to break the region’s geo-
political isolation. To that end, in its 2008 blueprint for 
socio-economic development in the region, promoting trade 
and investing in infrastructure on both sides of the India-
Myanmar border was a top priority for the government.
Recently, several agreements have been signed between 
both the countries to meet these goals. During Prime 
Minister Manmohan Singh’s visit to Myanmar (May 2012), 
memoranda of understanding (MoUs) were signed not 
only to enhance border development, but also to increase 
connectivity between the two countries and through 
Myanmar with Thailand and the Indo-Chinese states. 
Also, building infrastructure is on the top of the list. India 
has agreed to upgrade an extensive network of roads and 
bridges in Myanmar that will effectively connect the region 
(and the rest of India) to Thailand as soon as 2016. Both 
sides are also exploring the possibility of setting up train 
routes through both the countries.
The efficacy of various projects related to the trilateral 
highway as a component of the Asian highway cannot be 
overlooked. It aims at connecting India’s north east with 
Thailand via Myanmar. There has been an agreement 
between India and Myanmar on the construction and 
upgradation of the Kalewa-Yargyi stretch of the trilateral 
highway during recent meetings. In its larger and more 
ambitious frame, the project is an example of triangular 
road diplomacy between India, Myanmar and Thailand, 
with a vision of inter-linking the Indian Ocean with the 
South China Sea. It is a component of the Asian highway, 
which is scheduled for completion by 2016. Proposed 
and implemented by the United Nations Economic and 
Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UNESCAP), the 
Asian Highway project includes the highway 1 and 2 that 
would pass through the region, connecting India with its 
eastern neighbours. The highway needs to be interlinked with other critical 
projects that are envisaged to be completed as part of the 
‘Look East’ policy such as the Kaladan Multimodal Transit 
Project and Trans-Asian Railways. There is also a concern 
regarding illegal migration, which will also increase. 
Thus, there appears to be some incompatibility between 
the various development initiatives and approaches 
adopted in the region and the needs of the local people. 
Many of the movements, agitations and local protests 
being witnessed in the region are directly linked to such 
incompatible approaches.
Nevertheless, with better connectivity and implementation 
of various development projects, the Asian Highway will 
enable the region to become a business hub of South Asia. 
Economic linkages already exist by virtue of the prevailing 
legal and illegal trade between India and Myanmar through 
Moreh, a business border town in Manipur, and Tamu in 
Myanmar. Concrete economic benefits are expected to 
come up in the region with establishment of border haats. 
In addition, internal trade routes have the potential to 
enhance accessibility to sub-regional markets that connect 
Bangladesh, Myanmar and Bhutan. 
Myanmar is India’s gateway to ASEAN as it is the only 
country of this grouping which has a land and maritime 
boundary with India. With India becoming a summit level 
partner of ASEAN and a member of the East Asia Summit, 
improved relations with Myanmar will be beneficial in 
many respects.
16 ICC - PwC ReportConclusion
Institutional change supporting economic enhancement 
and growth at a social level requires economic incentives, 
supported by political will. With India moving into a new 
era of economic liberation, the region should not be left 
out. The framework for development of the region can 
be broadly based upon four vital components. The first 
component of this development plan should be social 
empowerment. It needs to empower rural communities, 
create sustainable institutions so that they manage 
common activities around microfinance, livelihoods and 
natural resource management. The second component 
needs to be economic empowerment. The objective of this 
component should ideally be to develop the capacity of 
rural communities to plan and manage funds for various 
economic initiatives and common activities for the public. 
The third component will be partnership development. 
The objective of this component should be to partner with 
various service providers, resource institutions and public 
and private sector organisations to bring resources such 
as finance, technology, and marketing into the project 
so that the community groups are able to improve their 
livelihoods. The fourth and final component will be project 
management. This will facilitate various governance, 
implementation, co-ordination, learning and quality 
enhancement efforts in the project.
Thus, with some of the changes that this paper attempts 
to deliberate upon, a process could be set in motion that 
could support the north east in its endeavor to contribute 
to the economic resurgence of the home region as well 
as to the development of the rest of the country. It is 
vital that this process includes mechanisms for equitably 
sharing the benefits to be derived from development and 
focusses not only on the big-ticket items that support 
broad-based, long-term growth, but also on those 
complementary activities that have immediate impact on 
poverty reduction at the community level.
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            17Bibliography
• Agriculture and Rural Development in North-Eastern 
India: The Role of NABARD,K.G Karmakar, ASCI Journal 
of Management 37(2): 89–108
• North Eastern Region Vision 2020, Ministry of 
Development of North Eastern Region, North East Council
• http://db.nedfi.com/
• Agriculture and Rural Development in North-Eastern 
India: The Role of NABARD,K.G Karmakar, ASCI Journal 
of Management 37(2): 89–108
• Indian Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF), www.ibef.com
• 3rd North East and East Power Summit 2010, PwC-ICC
• Load Generation Balance Report 2012-13, CEA
• Annual Report 2010-11, CEA
• Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, Department of 
Telecommunications, Annual Report 2011-12, 
• Ministry of Communications and Information Technology
• Annual report 2011-12, MoRTH
• http://www.ncap.res.in/upload_files/workshop/wsp10/
html/chapter3.htm
• Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). 2000. 
Economic Intelligence Service: Profile of Districts. 
Mumbai: CMIE.2007. Economic Intelligence Service: 
Agriculture. Mumbai: CMIE.
• Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 2005. Handbook of Statistics 
on the Indian Economy, 2004–05, Mumbai: RBI.
• http://agricoop.nic.in/SIA111213312.pdf ( Department 
of agriculture and cooperation, INM division)
• Annual Report 2009, Central Electricity AuthorityList of acronyms
Terms Explanation
NER North eastern region
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations
R&D Research and development
NeDFI North Eastern Development Finance 
Corporation
BRO Border Road Organisation
PWD Public Works Department
NHAI National Highway Authority of India
NHDP National Highway Development Programme
DPR Detailed project report
IWT Inland water transport
ICD Inland container depot
CONCOR Container Corporation of India Ltd
LGBI Lokpriya gopinath bordoloi international 
airports
NEEPCO North Eastern Electric Power Corporation 
Limited
MeSEB Meghalaya State Electricity Board
NEIIPP North Eastern Industrial and Investment 
Promotion Policy 
NEC North East Council
DoNER Development of north eastern region
IIITAS Indian Institute of Information Technology 
and Advanced Sciences
UNESCAP United Nations Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and Pacific
SEZ Special economic zone
CIS Capital investment subsidy
MOFPi Ministry of Food Processing Industries
18 ICC - PwC ReportFounded in 1925, Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) is the leading and only National Chamber of Commerce 
operating from Kolkata, and one of the most pro-active and forward-looking Chambers in the country today. 
Its membership spans some of the most prominent and major industrial groups in India. ICC is the founder 
member of FICCI, the apex body of business and industry in India. ICC’s forte is its ability to anticipate the 
needs of the future, respond to challenges, and prepare the stakeholders in the economy to benefit from these 
changes and opportunities. Set up by a group of pioneering industrialists led by Mr G D Birla, the Indian 
Chamber of Commerce was closely associated with the Indian Freedom Movement, as the first organised voice 
of indigenous Indian Industry. Several of the distinguished industry leaders in India, such as Mr B M Birla, 
Sir Ardeshir Dalal, Sir Badridas Goenka, Mr S P Jain, Lala Karam Chand Thapar, Mr Russi Mody, Mr Ashok 
Jain, Mr.Sanjiv Goenka, have led the ICC as its President. Currently, Mr. Shrivardhan Goenka is leading the 
Chamber as it’s President.
 ICC is the only Chamber from India to win the first prize in World Chambers Competition in Quebec, Canada.
ICC’s North-East Initiative has gained a new momentum and dynamism over the last few years, and the 
Chamber has been hugely successful in spreading awareness about the great economic potential of the North-
East at national and international levels. Trade & Investment shows on North-East in countries like Singapore, 
Thailand and Vietnam have created new vistas of economic co-operation between the North-East of India and 
South-East Asia.  ICC  has a special focus upon India’s trade & commerce relations with South & South-East 
Asian nations, in sync with India’s ‘Look East’ Policy, and has played a key role in building synergies between 
India and her Asian neighbours like Singapore, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Bhutan through Trade & Business 
Delegation Exchanges, and large Investment Summits. 
ICC also has a very strong focus upon Economic Research & Policy issues - it regularly undertakes Macro-
economic Surveys/Studies, prepares State Investment Climate Reports and Sector Reports, provides necessary 
Policy Inputs & Budget Recommendations to  Governments at State & Central levels.
The Indian Chamber of Commerce headquartered in Kolkata, over the last few years has truly emerged as a 
national Chamber of repute, with full-fledged offices in New Delhi, Guwahati and Bhubaneshwar functioning 
efficiently, and building meaningful synergies among  Industry and Government by addressing strategic issues 
of national significance.About ICC
New Delhi Office
Mr. Sunil Patel
Head, Northern Region- ICC
323, Ansal Chamber II
6, Bhikaji Cama Place
New Delhi - 110 066
Ph: 011 46101431-38
Fax: 011 4610 1440/1441
Mob: 9871121334
Email: energy@indianchamber.net 
Head Office
Dr. Rajeev Singh
Director General-ICC, 
4 India Exchange Place
Kolkata 700 001
Phone: 033-22303242
Fax: 033 2231 3380, 3377
Email: ceo@indianchamber.net
Website: www.indianchamber.net
Bhubaneswar Office
Mr. Sanjeev Kumar Mohanty
Resident Director-ICC, 
32-East Ashok Nagar,
Bhubaneswar, Orissa
Phone: 91-674-2532744
Mob. 094374-80477
Email: rd.orissa@indianchamber.net Guwahati Office
Mr. Ishantor Sobhapandit
Regional Director, North East- ICC
House No.209, 2nd Floor
Opp. Overtnite Express
Near AIDC
R.G.Barua Road
Guwahati - 24
Ph: 0361 2460216 / 2464767
Fax: 0361 2461763
Mob: 9435140047
Email: iccner@indianchamber.net 
Bihar Office
Mr. Kamal Sahi 
Resident Director – Icc
11/B, Dumri House;
Kavi Raman Path,
East Boring Road,
Patna – 800001
Bihar.
Tele Fax No. -  +91-612-2533636
RD’s direct No. -  +91-612-6500357
Mobile No – 9415336674
E mail id - rd.patna@indianchamber.net
India’s North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities            19About PwC
PwC firms help organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re 
a network of firms in 158 countries with close to 169,000 people who are committed to 
delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services.  Tell us what matters to you and 
find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC (www.pwc.com/India) offers a comprehensive portfolio of Advisory and 
Tax & Regulatory services; each, in turn, presents a basket of finely defined deliverables. 
Network firms of PwC in India also provide services in Assurance as per the relevant rules 
and regulations in India. 
Providing organisations with the advice they need, wherever they may be located, our highly 
qualified, experienced professionals, who have sound knowledge of the Indian business 
environment, listen to different points of view to help organisations solve their business 
issues and identify and maximise the opportunities they seek. Our industry specialisation 
allows us to help co-create solutions with our clients for their sector of interest. 
We are located in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. About ICC
pwc.com/in
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers Inter national Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
MS 434 - January 2013 File-name.indd 
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
