Title: Invading privacy: Cyber crimes on the rise
Date Published: 2013-04-23 05:11:51-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_invading-privacy-cyber-crimes-on-the-rise.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Invading privacy:
Cyber crimes on the rise
www.pwc.com/india
At a glance: 
Executive summary Pg 3/Introduction  Pg 4/Hacktivism and mass defacement Pg 6/ 
Corporate espionagePg10/Phishing and Skimming Pg12/ Cyber crime: An internal threat  Pg17/
BYOD Pg 19/ Cloud computing Pg 21/ Cyber threats: Adopting proactive approach  
to tackle itPg 23/ ConclusionPg 25
2    PwC
Whether an infiltration 
is criminally or 
politically motivated,  
a cyber attack can have a negative impact on 
a company’s value, 
reputation and ability to generate revenue. 
Businesses face serious threats from cyber criminals and senior management need to take these risks more seriously.
The PwC report, Invading privacy: Cyber 
crimes on the rise, assesses key emerging cyber 
crime trends related to organisations in India. 
It provides analysis on trends such as hacking and website defacement, corporate espionage, 
phishing and skimming, emergence of BYOD 
and the growth of cloud computing.
We hope the report plays an important role 
in helping enterprises shape their efforts and 
strategies to manage the emerging risks posed by cyber crimes and gain competitive advantage 
in today’s technology-driven environment. We 
look forward to your comments and feedback. 
Sivarama Krishnan 
Executive Director 
PricewaterhouseCoopers, India 
Email:sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com Preface

Cyber crimes on the rise     3  Executive summary
With increasing dependency on 
technology — be it cell phones, tablets 
or laptops, a new breed of tech-savvy 
fraudsters is coming out with new and more innovative ways of carrying out 
cyber attacks, thus posing a new set  
of challenges.
Our analysis reveals the following 
key emerging trends in cyber crime pertaining to organisations in India:
• A tremendous rise in the number 
of hacking incidents reported and an increasing risk of website 
defacement faced by government 
and private organisations.
• Corporate espionage emerging as a 
key cyber threat for business.
• Identity theft through phishing and skimming as one of the biggest 
pain points for the financial services sector.
• Internal stakeholders the gravest challenge to information security.
• Emergence of Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) based access to corporate systems. Malware 
attacks coupled with employees’ 
access to social media websites  on their personal devices pose 
serious security challenges to 
Indian organisations.
• Growth of cloud computing resulting in cyber crime exposure
The rising trend of hacktivism in India which involves hacking and website defacement by fraudsters 
motivated by political causes is 
becoming an increasing concern for the government as well as private organisations. Using Distributed 
Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks 
as one of the methods, hackers are able to access an organisation’s 
sensitive data leading to data loss and 
reputational damage.
Organisations are using every possible 
opportunity to gain an edge over their 
competitors by bringing together 
strategy, technology and market 
intelligence. Consequently, the threat landscape resulting from corporate 
espionage has evolved, gone digital 
and is certainly more dangerous. 
With the emergence of online and 
mobile banking, the financial services 
sector has become increasingly vulnerable to cyber crimes, particularly phishing and skimming. 
Phishing and skimming attacks 
involve identity thefts by stealing confidential and personal information 
of customers. This not only leads to 
reputational damage and customer loss but also involves heavy financial 
losses that have to be ultimately 
borne by the bank or the financial institution.
As organisations’ IT infrastructure is 
becoming more sophisticated, internal 
stakeholders are using advanced 
tools to commit cyber crimes within the organisation. Cyber attacks occur 
more from internal sources rather 
than external. 
With more opportunities for cyber 
criminals to access sensitive data, the 
lack of a robust legislative framework and inadequate cloud computing 
strategies of organisations, the risk 
relating to data privacy and security could potentially increase in India.
Undoubtedly, cyber security has 
become one of the significant 
concerns for organisations and 
protection of information assets has become top priority for business 
leaders in corporate India.
4    PwC
Introduction
Cyber security risks and the increasing 
awareness, occurrence and impact 
of cyber incidents confronting 
corporations are a rapidly growing concern to investors, senior executives, 
and policy setters. Driving this 
concern are unprecedented corporate dependencies on digital technologies 
which are growing at an exponential 
rate.  PwC published a study on insider threat in collaboration with the Data Security Council of India (DSCI) and the Global Economic Crime Survey 
in 2011, followed by the State of 
Information Security Survey India in 2013. This report builds on these 
surveys. We have used secondary 
research on PwC proprietary data and publicly available information 
to highlight some of the major cyber 
threats emerging in India. In the past, cyber security was classified as an IT issue, resulting in 
a communications chasm between 
business managers and security professionals. It has now taken priority 
in board meetings.
According to the PwC Economic Crime 
Survey India Report, 2011, cyber 
crime has been reported as one of the 
top economic crimes experienced by organisations in India out of the four 
economic crimes--fraud, cyber crime, 
bribery and corruption and asset misappropriation. Cyber crime ranks 
as one of the top four 
economic crimes 
perceived by Indian 
organisations.
68.00%20.00%36.00%24.00%
Asset misappropriationAccounting fraudBribery and corruptionCyber crime2011Top economic crimes experienced by organisations in India
Cyber crimes on the rise     5  Cyber crime has been increasing at an alarming rate 
in India. The number of cyber crime cases registered 
under the IT Act in 2011 were 1791, an 85% increase since 2010
1. As per PwC analysis, this number 
is expected to increase to 2636 in 2013, a 173% 
increase since 2010.
With an increase in cyber crime organisations 
can build their competitive advantage by taking a 
strategic view of threat management that builds operational resilience and enables sustainable 
growth. While the threat of crisis is embedded 
in doing business today, it is worth noting that opportunity does not exist without threat. 288420966179121302636
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Number of cyber crime cases registered under the IT Act
1 Crime in India’ report 2007-2011, (National Crime Record Bureau)
6    PwCHacktivism and mass defacement : 
A nuisance to organisations
Hacking has been one of the most 
commonly used methods of cyber 
attack. According to a National Crime 
Records Bureau (NCRB), there has been a tremendous rise in the number 
of hacking incidents reported in 
India. The number of hacking cases registered under the IT Act increased 
from 510 in 2010 to 983 in 20111. 
As per PwC analysis, this number is expected to increase to 1450 in 2013, 
a 184% since 2010.
13823351098311691450
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Number of hacking cases registered under the IT Act

Cyber crimes on the rise     7  
Hacktivism
Adding hacking to political activism 
gives us hacktivism, a phenomenon 
that has emerged recently in India,  
marking 2011 as the ‘year of the hack’. 
In addition to website defacement 
and distributed denial of service, 
hackers have been making use of 
social media for newer sophisticated attacks. Hacking attacks are tailored 
to target a particular organisation 
or entity and are often focussed on gathering sensitive data with 
monetary value. However, recent 
trends have shown a change in the data security landscape.Nearly14,000 
websites were hacked 
by cyber criminals 
till October 2012, 
an increase of nearly 
57% from 2009.Traditionally, companies and organisations have been trying to 
fight off digital attacks by cyber 
criminals looking for information that can be sold for money, but the 
aim of hacktivist groups is to get 
sensitive information belonging to the organisation for social or 
political purposes and not for 
financial gain. Hacktivists typically carry out DDoS attacks to disrupt a 
website’s operations.
2009 2010 2011 2012Others
.org
.net
.in
.comNumber of Indian websites defaced Defaced websites have been a common concern among government departments 
and private organisations. Website defacement is a form of hacking. It 
involves substituting the home page of a 
website by a system cracker that breaks into a web server and alters the hosted 
website, creating one of his own.  The 
total number of websites defaced in 2012 was 23014, a 282% increase since 2009. 
Of these, websites with .com and .in 
domains experienced the highest number of attacks.
2
2 Crime in India’ report 2007-2011, (National Crime Record Bureau)
8    PwCThe protests continue 
2012 was the year of protests across the country. The worldwide group of web 
hacking activists, known as ‘Anonymous’  held protests in several cities against  
what they claimed was the ‘growing censorship of the internet by the government’ 
in the country.  
A brief overview of Anonymous India’s infamous hacks during 2012 is as follows:
Anonymous takes 
down the website of 
Indian political party 
and the Supreme Court of IndiaA day after the government proposed a new plan to censor the internet, the websites of an Indian political party and the Supreme Court of India went offline  
for a couple of hours, caused by an attack by 
Anonymous India.
Anonymous hacks into leading 
broadband and 
telecommunications company serversA leading broadband and telecommunication company’s customers were unable to access  Facebook, Twitter and other sites for several hours 
after hacker group Anonymous reportedly hacked  
into their servers. 
Defacing of political party websitesAnonymous downed a political party’s website and the parent party’s website, with a message and a nice background score. This was in retaliation for the 
opposition to not having done anything to curb the 
government’s web censorship policies.
State-owned telecom company website 
down for six hoursAn Indian state-owned telecommunications company 
website was attacked by Anonymous, accusing the company of censoring content on the internet.Official website of IT minister defacedAnonymous hacked into the official website of the IT minister and defaced it with unflattering comments about his mental abilities.
Anonymous India brings down 
an educational 
institution’s websiteWebsites of one of the major educational institutions was hacked into and brought down for nearly nine hours by this group.

Cyber crimes on the rise     9  
The impact 
Hacktivism results in major reputational damage to targeted organisations and 
government agencies. Hacktivists use social media to publicly announce the details of their 
attacks. This also has an impact on the brand value of a company that has been a victim 
of hacking as customers lose faith in the organisation’s information security. Moreover, hacktivism leads to high-profile information breaches and data loss. 
The organisations targeted by hacktivists are not the only victims. The spilling of personal 
details, such as login credentials, email addresses and even physical addresses puts many 
innocent people at a greater risk of phishing, spamming and identity theft. The impact caused by this phenomenon is evident from the incidents highlighted below:
1 2Leading fast food service restaurant’s 
India website hacked, 
customer details leakedLeading software corporation’s store 
hacked, usernames and 
passwords stolen (India)
In September 2012, the Indian website of a popular fast food retailer was hacked into 
by a Turkish hacker group. Details of about 
37,000 accounts, including names, phone numbers, email addresses, passwords and 
city details were leaked.
The company’s India website was hacked 
into using the SQL injection method and 
remote file inclusion, one of the most common methods for stealing private data 
from web databases. Through this, the 
hacker typically tricks the site’s database into revealing data that should be hidden 
by ‘injecting’ certain commands.  
(Source: www.business-standard.com)In February 2012, hackers, allegedly belonging to a Chinese group, struck 
at the company’s website, stole login 
IDs and passwords of people who had used the website for shopping. 
Following, the members of the group 
posted a message on the company’s 
website saying ‘unsafe system will be baptised’. The website seemed 
to have been taken offline by the 
software corporation.  (Source: The Times of India) 
10    PwCCorporate espionage: India’s 
new booming sector
With increased economic pressure, 
ever increasing competition and 
proliferation of new technology 
platforms, companies are using every possible opportunity to position 
their brand, launch new products 
and retain the best people through personal websites and social media. 
Consequently, the threat landscape 
resulting from corporate espionage has evolved and has now gone digital, 
becoming more dangerous. Corporate 
spying is prevalent in sectors such as electronics and infrastructure, which 
are considered more vulnerable to 
fraudulent practices.Facing the threat are an organisation’s intellectual property (IP) (electronic 
communications and files), research 
and development (R&D) reports,  large databases, sensitive networks 
and information like research and 
development processes, innovations, product specifications, new marketing 
and sales strategies .  Corporate 
espionage cases are being reported from across sectors -IT-BPO, 
infrastructure, FMCG, banking, 
insurance, manufacturing and  telecom sector.
Over 35 % of the 
Indian organisations 
across various sectors 
have engaged in 
corporate espionage.
According to a survey by the Associated Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) 
more than 35% of companies operating in various sectors across 
India have been engaged in corporate 
spying to gain an edge over their competitors and have even started 
spying on their employees via social 
networking websites.
Corporate espionage has become a 
major concern for organisations as almost 80% CEOs are using services of 
detectives and surveillance agencies to 
spy on their ex-employees, employees’ lifestyle, know their whereabouts 
constantly apart from the usual pre 
and post-employment verification
3.Some recent cases
3 Economic Times – 2011 (Corruption trouble: Corporate espionage on rise in India)In 2013, the customer data of a reputed private insurance company was stolen by three people and used for negative 
publicity of the company, its policies and schemes. These 
individuals were owners of a rival company and indulged in corporate espionage. They breached the Information and 
Technology Act and section 379 of the Indian Penal Code for 
committing theft of customer data. (Source: DNA)
In 2012, a leading multinational conglomerate company levelled corporate espionage charges against an employee 
of another conglomerate for stealing a particularly sensitive 
display technology used in smartphones and other mobile devices.  Samsung is seeking recourse in the courts demanding 
the accused firm to make a public apology pay a fine of 
roughly about 10,000 USD and guarantee that it will not steal engineers moving forward. The accused is filing a countersuit 
alleging defamation. Six employees of the accused are 
expected to be involved in this. The judgement is still awaited. (Source: www.intelNews.org)Private insurance 
company 
data stolen
A leading multinational 
conglomerate 
company levelled 
corporate 
espionage
Cyber crimes on the rise     11  
Organisations are 
increasingly using 
social networking 
sites to keep a track of 
their rival companies 
and employees.Social networking sites such as 
Facebook, Orkut, YouTube, Twitter, 
Google+, Linkedin and others are 
being heavily used to dig out relevant information about rival companies, 
their schemes, policies, new products, 
confidential information, financial details, prior announcement of senior 
management moving out and attrition 
of employees.
According to the ASOCHAM survey 
4, 
73% top officials in various companies 
have been a victim of corporate 
espionage via social media. It is possible for anyone, including 
competitors, to learn about an 
organisation’s core values, hierarchy, communication style, organisational 
motivation, industry environment, 
employee morale, business challenges, systems and processes, 
competitive information and 
intellectual property through direct revelations, unmonitored tweets and 
logical deductions gathered from 
social media. Corporate espionage is not only prevalent at corporate level 
but is being practiced at an individual 
level as well.  
The impact
Corporate espionage within the workplace and corporate 
environment can have a devastating 
impact on the business entity in which it is occurring. The losses 
can also have an impact on the 
confidence of the local, state or national economic conditions based 
on the size of the business affected 
by such an activity.  It’s difficult to quantify the potential losses due 
to corporate espionage since it’s 
not easy to measure what effect a stolen ad campaign might have 
had, or how a stolen design might 
have dominated the market. But 
4 Corporate espionage via social media rampant in India Inc.: Assocham Survey 2012
5 http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/india/101223/industrial-espionage-corporate-indiait’s hitting the Indian market in a big way. IP theft and theft of 
confidential data are likely to 
happen via corporate espionage.
As an instance in 2011, a leading 
manufacturer of engineering solutions agreed to pay 
Pennsylvania-based company 
38 million USD  to settle a lawsuit over the alleged theft of 
proprietary water purification 
technology 
5.
12    PwCPhishing and skimming: An 
epidemic for financial services
Majority of the banks in India have 
migrated to online and mobile banking. 
Most of the transactions are conducted 
via payment cards, debit and credit cards, and electronic channels such as ATMs. 
Consequently, both private and public 
banks, as well as financial institutions in India are becoming increasingly vulnerable 
to sophisticated cyber attacks. 
According to the RBI, 8322 cases of cyber 
frauds were reported in 2012 amounting 
to 527 million INR. Although the number of cases reported has decreased from 
15018 cases reported in 2010, the amount 
involved in such cases has increased from 405 to 527 million INR in 2012 implying 
that the average value per cyber fraud case 
has increased significantly.
15018
9588
8322404.89
367.22
526.69
2010 2011 2012Total cases reported
Amount involved 
(million INR)Total cases reported 
Amount involved (million INR)
One of the most common forms of cyber attacks relating to banks is phishing, 
a financial scam in which fraudsters 
use social engineering techniques and spyware or malware codes to steal 
confidential financial and personal 
information of customers such as bank 
account numbers, credit card numbers, 
internet banking passwords, etc. These details can also be used for siphoning 
money off customers’ bank accounts, a 
loss that has to be ultimately borne by the banks themselves. Typical phishing 
attacks involve sending emails messages 
to customers containing logos or images impersonating to be financial institutions. 
These emails usually contain a web link 
which is a malicious web page that looks exactly like the financial institution’s 
webpage. Majority of these attacks are 
done for financial gain.

Cyber crimes on the rise     13  
In 2012, there was 
187% increase in 
phishing attacks on 
various Indian banks.
As per a recent study 
India ranks among 
the top five countries 
targeted by phishing 
attacks, accounting for 
7% of the world’s total 
phishing attacks.One in four phishing attacks used the .IN 
domain and involved targeting the bank 
balances of customers. Although these 
attacks originated from all over the world, Hyderabad hosted the second highest 
number of phishing attacks in the country. 
Interestingly, emerging cities such as Chandigarh, Bhubaneshwar, Surat, Cochin, 
Jaipur, Vishakhapatnam and Indore are 
also experiencing phishing attacks.
6
Some recent cases
RBI warns against 
fraud emailsIn May 2012, the RBI warned against fraud emails from mail 
id: alert@rbi.org.  The mails were sent by unscrupulous entities offering a new online security platform and asking 
customers to share information. According to the mail, 
the new online security platform offered to prevent online identity theft in internet banking. The email further asked 
the recipient to download attachment and update their 
information. The RBI cautioned the public not to open such emails or try to download the attachment on their computer. 
(Source: The Economic Times)
Police bust 
gang of 
fraudsters 
phishing bank 
accountsIn April 2012, an Indore-based gang of fraudsters involved 
in phishing the accounts of customers across the country of two leading banks in India were busted. The gang had 
opened fictitious accounts in their names in at least two dozen 
different banks in the city. These accounts were utilised to siphon off the money from the account holders of these banks 
through phishing. The money was later withdrawn from 
the fictitious account through ATM or cheques. The accused have been booked under section 419, 420 IPC and 66 IT Act. 
Further investigations are on. (Source: The Times of India)
6 Symantec Intelligence Report, May 2012
14    PwCSocial media sites such as Facebook, 
Twitter and LinkedIn might not be 
the real source of cyber crime, but 
criminals can use them effectively (phishing attacks). For example, 
they may use these techniques to 
collect information on a target (also known as ‘spear phishing’), research 
members of staff, or install malware 
on the target’s computer, very easily.
Credit cards have always been one of 
the biggest targets for cyber criminals; the most common form of credit card 
frauds involves skimming. With the 
rapid increase in the use of plastic money, India is witnessing a tide of 
skimming frauds.  Skimming is a hi-tech forgery that 
involves copying of customer and card 
information stored on the magnetic 
strip of a credit card, including the CVV number, by using an electronic 
device known as the ‘skimmer’. 
When the credit card is swiped through such a device, it reads and 
captures the information stored on 
the credit card. This information is used by the fraudster to create a 
cloned card which can then be used 
to make unauthorised and fraudulent transactions. Skimming frauds are 
extremely difficult to detect as the 
credit card is not actually stolen or reported. The customer to whom the 
card belongs becomes aware of the 
fraud only when a transaction is made using the cloned cards.
Between Oct-Dec 
2012, there were 
1590 cases of credit 
card frauds reported 
involving an amount 
of 94.86 million INR. 
The number of credit card frauds is increasing despite the various proactive 
measures taken by Indian banks to set 
up internal control systems to mitigate frauds relating to skimming or cloning 
of credit cards. As per the RBI statistics, 
in the quarter ended December 2012, there were 1590 cases of credit card 
reported involving an 94.86 million INR 
as compared to 1327 cases reported in the quarter ended September 2012 involving 
49.29 million INR.
The two most common types of skimming 
attacks occur at the following locations:
• ATMs
• PoS (point of sale), either by employees 
who use handheld skimming devices or fraudsters who swap PoS devices with 
devices that have been manipulated to 
capture unauthorised card information. e.g., swiping credit cards at restaurants 
or petrol pumps.
Cyber crimes on the rise     15  Most banks believe that 
the card information is 
captured through retail 
outlets that have been compromised. The cases 
range from fraudsters 
using captured information for making international 
online transactions or 
for transactions used in local shops. Despite 
implementing various 
controls, credit card skimming continues to rise.
Skimming fraud hits Chandigarh  petrol 
pumpsIn January 2013, two residents of Chandigarh received credit card bills for shopping done in Mumbai 
and Hyderabad. The money was deducted from their accounts before they could even approach the bank. People are losing money by making payments at petrol pumps in Chandigarh city. Nearly 55 
cases of skimming have been reported from petrol pumps in Chandigarh over the last six months. 
In these cases, miscreants cloned the cards and shopped at faraway places such as Mumbai and Hyderabad. The scam is worth lakhs. (Source: The Times of India)
Credit card data hacked, crores stolenIn April, 2012, a gang of fraudsters were arrested in Hyderabad for skimming and cloning credit and debit cards using a complex modus operandi of hacking international IP addresses, internet hawala, 
and spying and electronic data theft. The racket came to light in May 2011 when people who visited 
two malls complained that huge amounts were withdrawn from their accounts. The gang succeeded 
in skimming off 4 to 5 crore INR from unsuspecting credit and debit card holders across the country 
— from Hyderabad to Delhi, Kolkata to Bangalore. They used 15 point of sale (electronic draft 
capture) skimming machines, one ATM data skimming machine, ATM dome cameras, electronic magnetic writers, card printers and ATM pin pad skimmer machines and even placed spy cameras at 
ATMs which picked up the PINs of users. (Source: The Indian Express)Some recent cases

16    PwC
The impact
Banks are the worst hit when it 
comes to cyber frauds, particularly 
phishing scams.  As per the RBI 
statistics, cyber crime in Indian banks accounted to around 527 million INR 
in 2012 as compared to 405 million 
INR in 2010. In most of the cases relating to phishing attacks affecting 
banks, it was observed that phishing 
attacks not only cause reputational damage and customer loss, but the 
banks have to bear the loss caused 
to customers on account of money siphoned off their bank accounts. 
Moreover, between October to December 2012, the Indian credit 
card industry was targeted by a 
series of credit card frauds involving skimming and cloning of card 
information leading to unauthorised 
transactions totalling around 300 million INR.
7 
Top card issuing banks have seen unauthorised transactions totalling around 300 million INR so far by an 
international syndicate.
Most banks believe that the card 
information is captured through retail 
outlets that have been compromised. 
The cases range from fraudsters using captured information for making 
international online transactions 
or for transactions used in local shops. Despite implementing various 
controls, credit card skimming 
continues to rise.
Both the cardholder and the bank 
have to bear the brunt of the skimming fraud. When the fraudster makes unauthorised purchases with the cloned credit card, the credit card bill goes to the cardholder. 
When the credit card is swiped 
on the tampered skimmer device, the bank has to immediately 
make payment to the retail outlet 
where the purchase was made. However, if the cardholder can 
prove that he or she is not at fault, 
it is the bank that has to bear the loss. In India, there is no reversal 
of charges which means that 
even the money is restored to the cardholder; he or she may still 
have to bear a certain amount of 
loss. Besides this, the bank may 
have to incur further costs in terms 
of reissuing credit cards to these cardholders or even replacement of 
PoS machines. For instance, in the 
wake of recent skimming frauds, a leading bank has started replacing some PoS machines at merchant 
establishments.
7 Times of India, February 2013
Financial losses due to 
cyber crime in Indian 
banks accounted for 
close to 527 million 
INR in 2012, a 30% 
rise from 2010.
Top card issuing banks 
have seen unauthorised 
transactions totalling 
around 300 million INR 
so far by an international 
syndicate.
Cyber crimes on the rise     17  Cyber crime: An internal threat 
Most of the cyber threats originate 
from within the organisation and it is 
a growing concern across all sectors. 
Actions of a single insider can cause considerable damage to an organisation 
including lost staff hours, negative 
publicity and financial damage. The source of these threats could be 
employees, vendors, suppliers and 
partners but in most instances, cyber crimes are done by existing employees 
of the organisation. 
The fact that cyber crime is an internal 
threat more than an external one is not 
surprising since internal employees (fraudsters) have a deep insight into 
the organisation’s functionalities, 
security measures and weaknesses of the internal controls that prevent fraud.PwC analysis has shown that though the likelihood of the attack from 
insiders may be very low as compared 
to external threats, the magnitude of the impact is at least 10 times 
more than that of the total impact 
an external attacker can cause. This is because an insider attack is 
committed by people who know the 
organisation’s most sensitive secrets and vulnerabilities and have access to 
its systems.
According to the PwC Economic 
Crime Survey 2011 India, 60% 
organisations believed that the perpetrators were among their 
own staff and only 36% pointed to 
outsiders. 
Sixty per cent Indian 
organisations believe 
that internal employees 
are responsible for 
cyber attacks and 
economic crime.

18    PwC
Nearly 58% key 
decision makers 
see employees in IT 
department as the 
biggest source of 
cyber threat. It was also observed that two-thirds 
of key decision makers in Indian 
organisations see insider threat as the 
most serious security threat facing them. The IT department is the major 
source of cyber threat since it has well-
trained; educated and skilled staff who have access to the operating systems, 
databases, or business applications.
In most cases, breaches by insiders 
are committed by individuals who 
are motivated by greed, selfishness, or antagonism towards the management leaking confidential information outside the 
organisation.
8 
Moreover, social media sites such 
as Facebook, Twitter, and Linkedin, etc. are being used by insiders 
to commit security breaches by 
knowingly or unknowingly posting or sharing sensitive information of 
the organisation.
The impact
Insider threat not only weakens 
the organisation from within by 
exposing its sensitive information 
but also poses a greater risk where a malicious outsider can 
take advantage of an inadvertent 
insider leading to larger impact on an organisation. This enables 
fraudsters to conduct activities that 
cannot be easily detected. Thus, the confidentiality and integrity being 
compromised by employees accessing 
the organisation’s systems and data is a primary concern.
The internal threat cannot be 
completely avoided as insiders will 
always pose threats to organisations 
through both malicious behaviour and unintentional mistakes. These 
threats cannot be mitigated by 
technological solutions alone. A combination of technical and 
administrative solutions is required 
to adequately address the rising tide of cyber crime from within  
the organisation.  
8 The threat within A study on insider threat by DSCI in collaboration with PwC
Cyber crimes on the rise     19  BYOD is the latest buzz word in the IT 
industry. Company desktops are becoming 
a thing of the past, as organisations are 
increasingly allowing, and even encouraging employees to bring their domestic, 
consumer devices into the workplace and 
access corporate applications.
This not only allows application availability 
at anytime, from anywhere, but can also help business slash procurement costs. 
The smartphone or tablet phenomenon is 
expected to fuel this trend, and will drive uptake of the virtual desktop infrastructure 
(VDI), wireless networking and end-point 
security solutions in the corporate arena in the coming years but this is still a distant 
dream for India.
The BYOD trend in India is on a rise. Today, 
IT leaders are abandoning their rigid 
outlook, lockstep approach to security and 
are adopting a new ‘any device’ policy that supports popular mobile operating systems 
and enables user-owned devices to connect 
to corporate resources.BYOD: Benefits v/s security risks
Nearly 54% Indian 
organisation have 
accepted the BYOD 
model. 
9    ISACA (Information Systems Audit and Control Association), 2012 IT Risk/Reward Barometer
10  CISCO Study, 2012According to a recent survey, India stood first among its global 
counterparts in accepting BYOD with 
54% of Indian organisations allowing 
employees to bring their own devices.
9
Companies have now started to go 
beyond the risk-averse approach, have 
accepted the increasing BYOD trend 
and have moved beyond the basic ‘BYOD’ connectivity to create a better 
workplace experience. 
A recent study report shows that 
BYOD is making progress within the 
corporate environment, with 60% of 
employees using personal devices for work. Interestingly, India is one of the countries with some of the highest 
usage–80%, second only to China 
with 92 %. The report also shows that 82 % of companies say they already 
allow BYOD or will do so within the 
next 24 months. It is a relatively recent trend where employees are 
allowed and even encouraged to 
bring personally-owned devices to workplace and use them to access 
company resources such as email,  
file servers, and databases.
10
20    PwCMost organisations, globally, are now 
enabling BYOD in the enterprise, 
with a staggering 95% of respondents 
saying their organisations permit employee-owned devices in some 
way, shape or form in the workplace. 
This study also concluded that the average number of connected devices 
per knowledge worker is expected 
to reach 3.3 by 2014, up from an average of 2.8 in 2012. BYOD is 
perceived by most respondents to 
be a gateway to greater business benefits. Over three-fourths (76%) of 
IT leaders surveyed categorised BYOD 
as somewhat or extremely positive for their companies, even while seeing 
significant challenges for IT.
11The above reports show that the 
BYOD trend has arrived in India 
and is expected to rise in the near 
future. However, with the increasing use of mobile devices at work 
provide unexpected and unlimited 
opportunities for cyber criminals to attack mobile devices and wireless 
networks. Phones and mobile devices 
can be targeted in denial of service attacks, and cyber criminals may also 
exploit mobile banking applications 
to carry out fraudulent activities.
According to a study conducted by 
PwC in 2013 on BYOD, the weakest link in mobile device security is often 
the user and liability often originates at the top. C-level executives have 
exceptions to use personal devices, 
but these leaders pose the greatest 
risk because they have access to the company’s most important 
information. There are numerous 
benefits of BYOD that are undeniably compelling but at the same time 
it opens the door to potential data 
breaches and leakage through mechanisms such as malware.
12
11    Study report published by British Telecommunications plc (BT), 2012
12  PwC study - Bring your own device: Agility through consistent delivery 201

Cyber crimes on the rise     21  
Cloud computing: A new source 
of cyber threats 
The growing popularity as well as 
dependency on cloud computing 
and virtualisation among companies 
could lead them to being possible targets of cyber criminals. Cloud 
computing, on one hand, offers 
significant benefits and cost savings but on the other hand, moves servers 
outside the traditional security 
perimeter bringing it within easy reach of cyber criminals. As more 
data gets distributed around the 
internet via ‘cloud’, opportunities for data infection or theft are increasing. 
This has posing new complications 
to the security landscape of various Indian organisations
13.
The rise of cloud 
computing has 
complicated the 
security landscape 
for organisations.Only 31% 
organisations 
have strategies for 
cloud computing 
indicating a lag in 
adoption rates.
13 Annual information security survey (2011), conducted by PwC in conjunction with CIO and CSO magazines

22    PwCOne of the top concerns with cloud 
computing is the issue of data privacy 
and security. Cloud computing 
represents a risk, as it moves data and information into the hands of a third-
party provider for storage, processing, 
or support. Cloud computing builds a new layer of risk especially where 
sensitive data resides such as wide 
distribution of information across different jurisdictions, with different 
legal frameworks regarding data 
security and privacy and making  it even more difficult to govern and 
regulate the information. Other challenges that cloud computing 
poses are around governance, tie-in to 
the vendor, extension of the security 
model to the provider, connectivity and reliance on third party SLA’s. 
Cloud computing security issues are 
largely unresolved in India, since it has no formal cyber security law in 
place covering this new technology. 
The lack of clear legislative safeguards has resulted in increased risks for 
companies adopting cloud computing. 
India is not yet ready for cloud 
computing as most of it is dependent 
on service providers and many organisations do not have mature IT infrastructure to mitigate the risks 
posed by cloud computing. In India, 
technology adoption is moving faster than security implementation for 
new technologies. Only 31% of the 
organisations in India have strategies for cloud computing.
14
Thus, before going for cloud computing services organisations 
should be aware of vulnerabilities 
resulting from the use of cloud services and mindful of the availability 
of cloud services to employees within 
or outside the organisation.
Cloud computingRiskData privacy 
and security at stake
14 PwC’s Global State of Information Security Survey, 2013
Cyber crimes on the rise     23  Cyber threats: Adopting proactive 
approach to tackle it
Corporations in India will need to 
adopt proactive steps to ensure that 
cyber threats do not result in erosion 
of business value. Organisations need to adopt an effective cyber crime 
strategy that balances preventive, 
detective and response measures. 
Overall as a first step, organisations 
must get senior management involved in addressing high priority cyber 
issues, as well as creating a sustainable 
programme and culture to remediate security issues on an ongoing 
basis. Information security and the 
protection of customer information should be treated from a cultural 
perspective and senior management 
should be involved in the same way other industry safety regulations are 
treated at the company.
Preventive measures: 
1Providing proactive and ongoing 
education and training: Security 
policies, risks, etc. for customers 
and employees as well as new technologies such as new devices, 
social media, software as a service, 
cloud computing, advancement  
in e-businesses, etc. will help 
mitigate cyber incidents. These  are as follows:
• Stakeholder workshops with 
industry SMEs and enhanced employee training are important 
to mitigate the risk of cyber 
crime within the organisations. Face-to-face training should 
be given to employees and it is 
the most effective form when it comes to cyber crime awareness.2
34
Cyber intelligence team: Setting up a cyber intelligence 
team will help companies to 
analyse situational awareness and provide warnings of cyber 
threats in advance. It will also 
assist companies in discovering, tracking and reporting on global 
network events of interest that 
are identified by the team and/or  systems, utilising available 
cyber intelligence analysis data 
and methods.
Companies need to carry out 
risk assessments:  Organisations 
should prepare themselves for 
cyber threats, by focussing on understanding the risks their 
organisation faces, identify 
vulnerabilities in existing IT infrastructure, prioritise the 
impact of those vulnerabilities 
based on the value of affected information and technology 
assets, and then identify, 
implement and continually assess the necessary controls 
and countermeasures required 
to mitigate those vulnerabilities.Organisations need to deploy comprehensive policies: Organisations need to cover 
network security,device 
security, physicalsecurity, data privacy andsecurity, 
BYOD strategy, cloudstrategy, 
social media security,etc. and align them with technical 
and corporate culture 
changes,company’s people processesand other key internal 
controls. These are as follows:
360 - degree situational awareness  Customer 
awarenessEmployee 
awareness 
• Customers should be well-
informed about emerging cyber 
attacks through messages, mails 
and social media.
Computer security
Network security
Physical security
Data security and controls
•	Computer security
• Full disk encryption
• Encryption training
• Identity management or single 
sign on
•	Network security
• Web application testing
• Network penetration testing
•	Physical security and controls• GPS tracking devices on laptops
• Access control changes
•	Data security and controls• Risk assessment
• Revised incident response 
procedures
24    PwC1As far as hacking and intrusion 
into computer systems is 
concerned organisations should 
preserve computers used by web administrators responsible for its 
website and regularly analyse the 
server logs to identify unauthorised logins and file transfers to the 
web server. Apart from these, 
organisations should adopt the following remedial measures:
•	Respond to data breach 
allegations: 
Knowing the facts about the 
compromised website, the 
company will be in a position to 
effectively respond to the data breach allegations. 
•	Server hardening:  
Web application development 
and improved server hardening 
technologies should be 
developed to help prevent a future computer intrusion.
•	Enhanced information security policy:Implementation 
of enhanced information 
security policy regarding use of 
remote access technologies can help mitigate the risk of cyber 
attack.1Companies need to create a cyber 
incident response team through 
which an incident spotted 
anywhere in the business cab be tracked, risk-assessed and 
escalated. They need to execute 
the following:
• Companies need to develop a 
customised internal incident response capability for the 
client to investigate complex 
cyber incidents.  
• There is a need to identify 
technical and human 
resources to deploy to respond to both an internal or external 
cyber crime incident. 2Organisations need to take a 
tougher and clearer stance on 
cyber crime the organisation 
should take legal action against cyber criminals andannounce 
what it’s doing about threats 
and incidents.2Other security technologies will help companies detect cyber 
crime and take a proper response 
measure to mitigate the risk. These are as follows:
•	Intrusion detection system 
will help organisations to 
inspect all of the inbound and 
outbound network activities and identify suspicious 
patterns that indicate an 
attack that might compromise a system.
•	Honeypot is a device intended to be compromised and to detect cyber crime companies 
can have the system probed, 
attacked and potentially exploited.Detective measures
Response measures
Respond to data Computer 
forensics Log analysis
Respond to data 
security breach allegations
Enhanced information security policy Improved server hardeningInvestigative
 capability
Containment 
planIncident 
response 
capabilityCyber 
technical 
skillsCyber
response
team• Development of a consistent 
approach will help contain an 
advanced cyber threat.
• Employing technically skilled resources will help in responding 
to future cyber intrusions.
Cyber crimes on the rise     25  Conclusion
Since rapid and dynamic changes in 
the technology space are throwing 
open new ways of doing business, 
organisations have to find out appropriate ways to tackle the ‘new 
age’ sophisticated cyber crimes 
emerging in India. Increasing use of mobile and online banking, smart 
phones and personal devices, social 
media and cloud computing offer a wealth of attractive business solutions 
and opportunities to organisations but 
at the same time they can also pose a plethora of information security risks. With the increasing number and diversity of cyber crimes in India, it is of paramount importance for 
organisations to develop a response 
mechanism that enables them to understand and embrace the risks 
and opportunities of the cyber 
world on an ongoing basis. Despite implementing various internal 
controls, cyber crimes continue to 
rise at an increasing rate.Today, more and more organisations in all sectors are seizing the opportunities created by the 
internet. In our PwC’s view, 
organisations that incorporate cyber awareness and responsiveness in 
every employee, every decision and 
every interaction and are aware of the current and emerging cyber 
environment will be the ones to gain 
competitive advantage in today’s technology-driven environment. 

26    PwCNotes
Cyber crimes on the rise     27  About PwC India  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with 
more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, 
Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see 
www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
       youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
Satyavati Berera 
Tel: +91 124 330 6011 
Email: satyavati.berera@in.pwc.com
Sivarama Krishnan 
Tel: +91 124 330 6018 
Email: sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com
Siddharth Vishwanath 
Tel: +91 22 6669 1559 
Email: siddharth.vishwanath@in.pwc.com
Arup Sen 
Tel: +91 22 6669 1078 Email: arup.sen@in.pwc.com
Harpreet Singh 
Tel: +91 124 330 6012 
Email: harpreet.singh@in.pwc.comKumar Dasgupta 
Tel: +91 22 6669 1341 
Email: kumar.dasgupta@in.pwc.com
Manpreet Singh Ahuja 
Tel: +91 124 330 6021 
Email: manpreet.singh.ahuja@in.pwc.com
Neeraj Gupta 
Tel: +91 124 330 6010 Email: p.neeraj.gupta@in.pwc.com
Sanjay Dhawan 
Tel: +91 80 4079 7003 
Email: sanjay.dhawan@in.pwc.com
Tapan Ray 
Tel: +91 22 6669 1204 
Email: tapan.ray@in.pwc.com 
*National Practice Leader (RAS)
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 485 - April 2013 Invading privacy: Cyber crimes on the rise.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
