Title: pwc_running-it-as-a-business
Date Published: 2013-12-13 14:08:56+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_running-it-as-a-business.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Running IT  
as a Business 
Breaking 
boundaries with emerging 
technologies
www.pwc.in
Contents  
Foreword p2/ Social media p4/ Mobility p8/ Big data analytics p14/ Cloud computing p24/ 
CIO interviews   p38

2 PwCForeword
Effective technology, which can drive innovation so as to help enterprises meet 
the current challenges of the disruptive business environment, cannot exist in vacuum. Within his or her changing role, a CIO also has to collaborate with the 
other members of the C-suite, in order to understand and analyse the risks and 
opportunities while developing a technology roadmap.
The convergence of four technologies, namely social media, mobility, analytics 
and big data, and cloud computing (SMAC), can potentially address the CIO’s 
current needs. Though each of these technologies has a unique impact, they 
complement each other to foster innovation and enable business transformation through new ways of product development, customer service and interaction, and partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success. In addition to SMAC, the internet of things (IoT) and DevOps are amongst the other emerging 
technologies that the IT world has to offer. 
While it is pertinent that these emerging technologies will impel innovation, 
enterprises will have to develop a comprehensive strategy around the manner in which they wish to organise their innovation as well as ways to achieve the best 
possible results from it.
This joint CII-PwC report covers the rising phenomenon of SMAC not from a ‘what 
is it’ perspective, but from a starting assumption of ‘yes, SMAC will be the backbone of enterprise IT in the future’.  It focuses on what CEOs, CIOs and CFOs should do beyond making IT perform better. It also includes in-depth interviews 
with notable CIOs who have provided their perspective on the adoption of these 
technologies. 
Varun Sood
Co-Chairman, National CIO Forum and Head – Information TechnologyFortis Healthcare Group
Rajesh Uppal
Co-Chairman, National CIO Forum and Executive Director & CIO Maruti Suzuki India Ltd 

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    3Introduction 
Changes in the current economic scenario and market structure are exposing 
businesses to a host of uncertainties, and are pushing business leaders to think of newer ways of addressing problems and issues at hand, so as to stay ahead in the 
competition. Today, a chief information officer (CIO) must also be a strategist, and 
focus on enterprise growth and profitability through innovation, a shift from the traditional role of being responsible for business operations support and cost containment. 
With an aim to highlight this change in role and to focus on building an awareness on 
technologies as well as  policy compliances for the large and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) had set-up the National CIO Forum earlier this year. This forum intends to share the best practices and case studies on information technology (IT) adoption, and formulate an IT 
Maturity Level Framework for CII members across different industry verticals.
This joint report is therefore an attempt to look into and analyse the transformational 
role of the CIO in running IT as a business, and the role emerging technologies can play in making organisations agile and adaptive within the current market scenario.Debdas Sen
Executive Director/PartnerRegional Managing Partner (East) and Technology 
Consulting Leader
PwC India

4 PwC
Social media
Reaping the rewards  of social outreach 
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    5Organisations 
are beginning to effectively use social media and other digital avenues to get closer to their customers. Their numbers are growing and more are likely to follow suit as the competition for customers continues to heat up.Social media is flourishing. Leading 
companies know that ‘participation is no longer a choice, but a requirement’. 
Successfully entering into the realm of 
the social media requires adequate planning, resources and support. 
While social media need not replace 
face-to-face communication, it can be useful in enhancing the overall customer experience as well as in creating new 
sales and servicing opportunities.
Social media is offering organisations a 
scalable way to co-create and engage 
with their customers. More importantly, social media is no longer an emerging technology. In fact, it has arrived and is 
here to stay. 
While many individuals use social  
media on a daily basis, the challenge  
for organisations and their leaders is  
that they may not know how to optimally 
utilise it for the benefit of the enterprise. Understanding the various applications 
in social media and how they can be  
used to achieve business benefits is the 
first step. Social media, when utilised well, can create a collaborative dialogue with a very large, but very specific audience, one person at a time. And, it’s successful 
because it breaks down formal barriers. 
It provides an opportunity for 
instantaneous communication and 
promotes collaboration across functional groups and geographic regions. In its most powerful phase, it can bring out the 
full weight of millions behind identified 
ideas and actions within days.
To anticipate customer needs and 
determine how to server them in the best possible way,  majority of  organisations today are investing to obtain better data on customer behaviours and needs, as 
well as better analysis of the same  data. 
The ultimate goal is to improve customer experience.
Line of sight 
Delivering the promise of social engagementSource: Social Customer Engagement Index 2012, NM Incite State of Social Customer Care 2012, Satmetrix worldwide Study, May 
2012
Social marketing
Builds brand advocates and delivers better 
traffic, conversation and sales results than other vehicles 
Social customer care and support 
Delivers a better customer experience and 
drives down service costs, while capturing rich, expert content from both customers and trained agents 
I want word-of-mouth marketing for my 
product and services I want to create a deeper customer engagement and raise brand awareness
I took the first step in social marketing 
presence. Now what? I want to measure and improve social presenceI want to attract more buyers and increase product sales and reduce costsWhat does the customer have to say 
about me?Social commerce
Drives sales by using peer reviews and 
answers to attract more customers and increase buyer confidence 
Social innovation
Crowd-source innovation to beat the 
competition and brings better products to market faster. Invite customers to share and debate the best ideas
6 PwCIn order to ensure social adaption or 
marketing success, having in place a marketing presence on the major social 
media platforms is not enough for an 
organisation.  As social media usage has grown and matured, the impact it can have on brands, positive or negative,  
is enormous. 
Consider how the social media is used 
today: traditional media uses social 
media as a source for news stories, 
celebrities and individuals repost and retweet the posts that they like, customers post their service experiences 
and some even make videos and spoofs, 
messages now ‘go viral’ resulting in instant wide, uncontrolled distribution. 
In some cases, regulators are even using 
consumer complaints on the social media to detect unlawful practices. 
Unchecked, customer dissatisfaction 
issues that may have previously gone unnoticed become major disasters in  
the public realm. This possibility  
makes social media monitoring and management necessary in order to  
avoid any potential damage to the  
brand equity.
Social intelligence takes a finer view by 
focussing on specific challenges involved in proactively using social media data to make better informed marketing and business decisions. 
Even before the explosion in social media 
customer data, companies struggled to 
leverage other forms of semi-structured 
and unstructured content, including call notes, email text, and audio files. They neglected these sources of customer data, focussing instead on the more 
straightforward task of integrating their 
structured customer data.
With the advent of social media, 
organisations with a strong brand identity began to address their customers online by searching related content.
What does an enterprise hope to gain by 
listening to what is said about its 
organisation? 
It hopes to understand the consumer 
sentiments better by seeking the answers 
to the following questions:
• How does the customer feel about the 
organisation?
• Has the customer experienced any service problems?
• Is this customer influencing other consumers?
According to the PwC’s 5th Digital IQ 
Survey 2013, strong collaborators are four times more likely to be the top performers than those with less collaborative leadership.  Social media: CEOs are listening
Strong collaborators expect social media to increase over the next 12 months54% 
of US CEOs say 
social media 
influences their 
business strategy
Source: PwC’s 16th Annual Global CEO Survey, 2013
Source: PwC Digital IQ, 2013Do you expect the usage of social media channel in your organisation for business purposes to 
increase, decrease or stay the same in the next 12 months? % saying increase
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    7“Today, social 
media isn’t edgy. 
It’s mainstream 
and it is business.”  
Alec Ross, US government 
Senior Advisor for 
Innovation, 21 March 2012 Making the most of social media: 
What’s in it for businesses?
Eighty-two percent  of the world’s online 
population uses social media.  
According to a PwC research, 
“Demystifying the Online Shopper: 10 
Myths of Multichannel Retailing”, only 37% of companies have invested in social media tools in order to understand their 
customers. Rather than merely making 
them pressing the obligatory ‘like’ button on their web page and calling it a day, private entrepreneurial companies are seizing on social media’s ability to get the closer to their customers. While any organisation, publicly listed or privately 
held, can utilise social media tools to serve 
this purpose, the latter is leading the process. Businesses have begun to realise the potential of social media. If tapped 
optimally, it can help improve their 
strategy, structure, processes, technology and people to harness the desired benefits. 
Many organisations do have a strong  
focus on their customers, which makes social media a natural fit for them. Increasingly, organisations are adopting social media for marketing, internal collaboration, R&D, product development, 
communication, and HR. The most 
commonly used social platforms are Twitter, Facebook, Google+, YouTube, blogs and other community forums. Several industry leaders have adopted 
social media technologies and augmented 
their benefits. Verticals such as retail and consumer goods, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, telecom, manufacturing, 
energy, transportation and education have 
benefitted from this shift. Their needs vary according to their nature.Businesses can unlock following aspects using social media:
• Brand awareness
• Customer retention and acquisition
• Customer care and service
• Marketing
• Product development
• Crisis management
• Internal and external collaboration
• Recruiting
• Business process supportBroadening brand awareness
Increasingly, online shoppers are discovering and following brands via social media
17%  
49%  27%  
59%  
Discovered brands via social media 
Followed brands and retailers on social media 
Source: Demystifying the Online Shopper: 10 Myths of Multichannel Retailing, PwC, 2013
8 PwC
Mobility
Rise in the use of mobile devices
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    9
In a country like 
India, where mergers and acquisitions with industry giants from developed countries are frequent, it is essential to transform the way Indian markets execute business operations. Consumers are no longer buying smartphones for basic communication.The technological landscape is evolving 
faster than ever. The utility of mobile devices has surpassed all legendary 
predictions and has penetrated into almost 
every avenue of the world. 
Indian as well as global consumers are 
increasingly spending more time and money on digital data consumption. With the advent of new mobile devices and platforms with advanced connectivity 
capabilities, accessing digital content has 
become convenient. With an increasing per head income rate, consumers are increasingly switching to smartphones, 
with the smartphone sales beating the 
feature phone sales for the first time ever in the second quarter of 2013. 
What is enterprise mobility?
Enterprise mobility enables the enterprise 
to support operations based on mobile 
devices and empowers the workforce with 
such devices so as to seamlessly execute their day-to-day activities .
Why should an enterprise go 
‘mobile’?
Following are the reasons for an enterprise 
to embrace mobility:
• Access to critical business data in 
real-time
• Executing critical business operations 
anywhere, anytime
• Edge over competition
• Contextual information on the move
• Reaching out to mobile customers
• Location-specific information
• Remote business task execution 
• Notifying and alerting specific business groups about critical events
How does mobility add value to a business?
It provides the business with contextual 
intelligence. This is how it works:
• With the advent of new technology 
device capabilities,  information gathered from users are contextual
• Information gathered is intelligent as it 
carries attributes such as  geolocation, 
user activity, connectivity and availability 
• Contextual information enables contextual intelligence with inputs 
from the user, device and the 
environment• Pushing the precise and contextual enterprise data to a mobile user anywhere, anytime, transforms the way users execute their tasks
What challenges are faced by an enterprise implementing a mobile solution?
The following challenges are faced by 
enterprises that are new to mobile implementation:
• How to identify the business processes 
that should be mobilised first in order 
to increase revenue and reduce cost? 
• How to innovate around the workforce 
and consumers to enhance user experience?
• How to implement app distribution and device management to create an agile, compliant and secure mobile enterprise eco-system? 
• What is the governance, risk and 
compliance an enterprise should care 
about, while mobilising their enterprise system?
On the other hand, challenges faced by enterprises who have already initiated the process are as follows:
• Isolated mobile app implementations in 
certain segments of the enterprise
• Random development and enterprise 
system integration creates additional 
complex service layers 
• Insecure over-the-air data transmissions  without implementing industry grade compliances 
• Less intuitive  or poorly designed apps and solutions
These challenges are supposed to be identified and fixed by the mobile service 
providers in the initial design phase of a 
mobile solution roll-out. This is a phenomenal error made due to the lack of vision and without understanding the 
needs of the customer’s customer: the  
end user. 
In invariable 
economic conditions, mobile OEMs have given the developer community and enterprises the power to create mobile apps to enhance business operations much faster for gaining a competitive edge.
10 PwCTransforming business with better 
user experienceDesign driven innovation
To understand the changing user and 
market needs, it is necessary to constantly improve upon the products, services or offerings. The recent introduction of smart 
devices helps us execute and get things 
done faster and better.  The market adoption rate of technology has a different perspective to offer, wherein consumers require devices that provide them with  
an enhanced experience and make their lives easier. 
In the context of an enterprise, the 
day-to-day activities of employees can be perfected by providing them with real-time tools and applications on the move.  
A mobile application delivering instantaneous information from the  
cloud is an example. 
How can there be value addition in the 
above instance? By understanding how a user needs data and what is the intended experience to be created for that user in 
that particular environment and device. 
How do we find this out? We see a strong 
need for innovation and an in-depth 
understanding of the processes involved. This will lead to new and improved ways to create everlasting end-user experiences. This simple design process is a mixture of 
right-brained thinking and left-brained 
thoughts. All products are designed and created to serve a purpose, if you design it well, you create it better.The ugly truth
For instance, designing a mobile 
application for maintaining travel expenses or a sales force app may sound simple, but in reality, it is a complex 
process. These applications are designed 
with functional flow in mind which though enables an employee to achieve a task faster, does not provide him with any sense of accomplishment. 
 A mobile device does give a lot of leverage 
over a desktop, but is it leveraged to the 
most optimal levels to improve the 
business processes execution experience? 
While there can be lot of such basic 
scenarios analysed, enterprises today are not equipped with tools and insights to find these answers from their providers.
Know your users and their intentions in 
advance
Users can be customers, consumers, 
workforce or an executive team, however, knowing the user and researching their needs will help the business to understand 
what a user wants currently as well as in 
future. This thought leadership gap between the customer’s need and an organisation’s deliverables makes profitable growth a distant possibility.  
The quintessential innovation process
 The whole process is based on keen 
listening and observation. Every innovative product or solution is designed to serve a purpose.  These two inputs along with a thorough knowledge about the 
transformation trends will play key role in 
creating an innovative solution or product. Effective innovation entails the following five steps: 
• Observe
• Empathise
• Define
• Ideate
• Build
This design process is usually followed in a 
sequence, but may vary a little depending upon the case. 
Consumers are increasing looking 
for an advanced user experience. Have you managed to make the necessary provisions?Most of the providers today get  business process, supply chain, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) enterprise applications installed on their smart devices. These are re-creating the same functional flow of your business  process onto a smart device. This cannot be called transformation. If you think you know your customers, without extensive research and analysis results, you may have to think again.Experiencing the experience
The digital revolution has made our lives 
fast-paced. A majority of the population in the developed and the developing countries is utilising the latest technologies 
such as mobile phones, tablets, touch-
enabled kiosks, smart watch, smart glass, proximity sensors, etc. These devices, when used effectively, become the transformation agents in our lives. 
Once a user likes a particular technology 
for its utility and service, he tends to use it 
more often and shares this experience 
with more people. This is what is called a complete cycle of a successfully demonstrated user experience.
In a product development environment, 
user experience is all about enhancing and 
encouraging a user with a new or modified 
experience to enjoy using it and getting better results.  A satisfactory user experience is absolutely necessary for the success of a product or service. A 
disgruntled consumer is highly unlikely to 
return to the same provider.
These activities, in one way or the other 
are a part of most of our lives. We use one or more gadgets or applications to execute them. A lot of times we do not even realise how dependent we have become on the 
convenience provided by these gadgets. 
There are companies which have made 
fortunes out of their understanding of the 
consumers’ needs and modifying their products accordingly. Companies that have not been able to do so have faced the consequence and realised the importance 
of this understanding of consumer 
behaviour. 

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    11Observe
Observation is first part of the design 
process. The focus is on observing current usage behaviours, system and user pain points, and purpose. The user’s purpose 
for mobile app is observed, the current way 
in which they perform their activities and the inconvenience they face. This information is then collected and verified with user interviews. Tom Kelly, Partner at 
IDEO mentions that observation is in the 
eye of the observe. We see what we have to see, when the observation is masked by various factors such as experience, 
knowledge, culture, education, emotions 
of an observer. We do not get to see details, instead the mind rushes for judgements with our pre- conceived thoughts and knowledge. It is both, good as well as bad.
Outcomes  
• Observation matrix mapped with the 
needs and wants of the system 
• Current difficulties categorised as per 
user views
• Scope of the business case definition 
with identified challenges
Empathise
The name itself explains the objective of 
this step. In a mobile app context, the user 
demographics and psychographics needs 
will be accounted for and prioritised. Understanding the different types of users who will be using the system will be identified through the collected 
ethnographic parameters. This is where 
the desirability of the solution is measured and mapped along with the business purpose.
Outcomes• User ethnographic evaluation and user 
behaviours identification
• Business case - actors of the system identification
• Scope of user experience of the solution
• Redefining the problem statement
Define
This phase is all about giving shape and 
structure to the collected information. User behaviours define their wants as well 
as the missing pieces in the solution. 
Empathy analysis will show the user engagement touch points or the user experience required by the actors of the 
system. Traditional methods were derived 
by user roles, such as managers, sales executives, etc, but over time this did not turn out to be equally productive. In this process, the business case finds the users 
and defines the experience for a customer, 
consumer, an employee or a vendor. Outcomes
• Persona creation and defining 
behavioural attributes
• ‘A day in life’ scenario for the persona created
• Define business case: experience as a system
• Measured benefits of business case with return on investment (ROI) and 
total cost of ownership (TCO) metrics
Ideate
Ideation is where the solution is defined. It 
involves exploring concepts or solutions. Feasibility and viability of the system are constantly checked for all solutions and 
ideas proposed by the team and mapped 
with the problem statement or the purpose. There are extensive collaborative sessions where concepts are evaluated and given shape to create business value. 
Shortlisted approaches are discussed with 
the industry experts and the users to record their reactions. The final solution will be mapped with user experience factors and simulated with quick 
prototyping if required. 
Outcomes
• Prototypes to check feasibility and 
viability
• Functional requirements, and design documents for the building business case
• Solution approach and infrastructure specification
• Choice of technology, tools and devices
Build
This is the final stage wherein the solution 
is executed. The solution can be a complete implementation or proof-of-concept implementation depending on the 
executive management’s call. Testing 
iterations are always a part of this step and there are re-iterations if required. It also includes constant feedback from the users 
via the toolkits available. User experience 
checks and tests are executed and the results are immediately fed into the production environment. Unlike traditional software development 
methodologies, this development style 
should enable the engineering and design team with DevOps environment for better and quicker results.
Outcomes• World-class business case productised 
• Quick test results or reactions from 
usersInnovation is an ongoing process and fits best in case of an enterprise or a product and solution development company. As 
user demands change, experiences also 
tend to get better urging the service providers to constantly innovate.
Users today do not need a generic solution 
any longer. They want a product or a solution that can constantly be at their disposal. Understanding the user 
sentiment will hence play a key role in 
transforming business and winning over competition. 
• How does the customer feel about the 
organisation?
• Has the customer experienced any service problems?
• Is this customer influencing other consumers?
12 PwCRising threats: Have you secured 
your enterprise data?
When the workforce is mobile savvy, the 
enterprise data goes mobile, it can be easily accessed anywhere, anytime. 
Presently, mobile devices are equipped 
with high speed network connectivity, and it is easy to stream a video through a 3G connection. However, is this data secure? While data transfers and data 
consumption are proportionally 
increasing, the workforce tends to consume the enterprise data more than usual. They may end up accessing 
enterprise data unintentionally over an 
insecure Wi-Fi connection in coffee bar. This may lead to confidential data getting leaked into the public domain.
Enterprise data and user behaviour
Mobile workforce is the next generation 
workforce. Mobile technologies have 
evolved faster that anyone ever anticipated. Users, in most cases, are not yet aware of the consequences of basic security mishaps. There are a lot of 
incidents that knowingly or unknowingly 
happen and even large corporations have been victims of data theft. 
The good
• Mobile users prefer to use their 
personal devices for official purposes.
• Mobiles and tablets, when secured, can be a good replacement for laptops and desktops.
• Sales and customer facing professionals can access enterprise data anywhere, 
anytime.
• Delivery agents can securely connect to 
enterprise systems for payment processing or digital signature submission.It’s good to have your 
workforce connected through mobiles, but it is important to ensure that these transactions are kept safe.  Industries are already moving towards mobiles, which if uncontrolled, can turn out to be a disaster.The bad
• Mobile apps  do not  follow basic 
compliance while transmitting enterprise data, thus resulting in leakages
• Mobile users access restricted websites via corporate Wi-Fi
• Mobile users use blacklisted apps inside office network
• Mobile apps save enterprise data locally 
on the device in the physical memory 
unit unencrypted
• Mobile users accessing official emails from open or insecure  public networks
The ugly
• Mobile users often leave their devices 
unattended or  unlocked in public at 
accessible locations
• Stolen devices that are loaded with corporate data without a pass-code 
protection enabled are a major threat
• Users unintentionally forward a 
business critical document to personal email addresses
• Enterprise applications transmit 
payments or customer signatures over 
insecure networks
These errors are due to a flaw in design or the lack of knowledge and awareness. There is a clear indication that employees are interested to execute almost all their day-to-day activities on their mobiles or 
tablets. This requires enterprises to take 
extra precautionary measures against data theft. 
It is not just about securing data in the air, 
securing enterprise data while on the device is equally important.  
Computer Tablet Smartphones
Source: Usage of mobile/tablet devices in a typical week2Usage of mobiles and tablets on a typical week 
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    13The rise of mobile device 
management solutions
After personal computers transitioned in 
the 90s, and networked enterprise grade computers arrived, there was no clear 
forecast on the possible threats posed by a 
connected environment that had access to enterprise data. This is when original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and software application providers came with 
advanced capabilities such as network 
administration applications with policy-based access control tools.
However today, given our experience in 
technology and threats in the past, we are able to foresee security threats in the 
future.  This is when a well-defined mobile 
management and administration applications, also known as mobile device management (MDM) solutions were developed. Mobile OEMs are already 
bringing in enterprise-specific features 
within their device platforms. MDM solutions are the future need of an enterprise in order to safeguard  
enterprise data.
Now, with the advent of mobile platforms, 
and with new devices emerging almost 
every week from various OEMs, the 
market is already fragmented.  Taking enterprise applications to mobile devices and managing all devices for compliance and security should strike a balance.  Today, while enterprises feel that bringing in their own device policies are a best-fit 
solution and reduce ownership costs, it is 
equally important to secure the fragmented devices used by employees. 
Traditional IT is not equipped with tools to 
handle this transition, and with the advent of MDM solutions this scenario will keep changing over time.  In India, there are 
enterprises still evaluating or thinking of 
deploying MDM solutions. However, western industries as well as enterprises are already making investments on device 
management solutions. These are proven 
solutions and the need of the hour.  In India while aspiring for international business standards, we also need the right tools and solutions in place. While there 
are many MDM solutions available in the 
market, it is important to analyse what will work best for an enterprise’s current and future needs. 
To have a cloud-based MDM solution is an 
optimal choice, since most of the solutions do not capture enterprise data. There are 
solutions which disclose the data capturing 
policy upfront. All data captured has to be reviewed before implementation.Benefits of cloud-based MDM solutions are as follows:
• Reduced deployment and roll-out costs
• No extensive licencing costs. So, one can choose wisely and pay per device
• A simple do-it-yourself platform to enrol user device 
• Easy to understand self or assisted service portal for better configuration and policy roll-outs
• Zero-day availability of updates for new device platforms
Shortly, there will be an environment for developed as well as developing nations to have an equal and fair chance to improve and compete in business. Technology will 
be the key transforming agents within this 
business environment.   There are smart devices emerging and a whole gamut of connected devices and machines capable of communicating with other machines or 
humans. These devices can also exhibit 
threats to enterprises, however, it is about taking proactive preventive measures to safeguard the environment.  MDM is the   first step towards this journey.
Employee buys mobile 
devices and OS is pre-installed by sellers
IT team purchases hardware, OS, anti-virus, firewall and data encryption software licencesThe MDM solution pushes the policies OTA and secures enterprise data
IT team installs or updates 
enterprise policies and software periodicallyEmployee gets an email or sms from the MDM solution and he or she enrolls with the MDM solution
IT team installs or pre-
configures OS or patches or assigns a laptop or desktop Employee installs or upgrades his or her OS and apps
Dedicated IT team to support laptop ordesktop usersEnterprise IT: Employee association timeline
Increased TCOReduced TCO
Asset management 
overheadsReduced IT 
maintenance cost
High IT maintenance 
time and costIncreased IT 
productivity
Increased TCOImproved employee 
satisfaction
Enterprise IT: Employee association timelineEnterprise IT: Employee association timeline
14 PwC
Big data analytics
Fact vs fiction
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    15Increasingly, companies have discovered 
ways in which  big data can provide deeper insights that drive innovation, 
strategy, new product development as 
well as  customer relationships. Big data insights can inform as well as  change a single business decision, a company’s strategy and business model or even an 
entire industry.It  is not a technology-
driven change rather it is a business-driven approach facilitated by technology. Capitalising on this opportunity begins 
with understanding the needs and goals 
of an  organisation and the potential that new data can bring to improve  the decision-making procedure. Traditional data- driven strategies based on analytics 
have mostly been performed at the 
aggregate level in areas such as marketing studies, customer segmentation, driver trees, etc. It is evident that organisations are generating a lot more data, but for most part, data is discarded unless it can be 
readily analysed. However,  with big data, 
the cost per terabyte (TB) of storing such data comes down. With improved cycle times through big data, and with additional  sophisticated models, 
companies can build faster and 
potentially cost-effective solutions to serve data and information to the business consumers who are  increasingly 
aware of changes in  technology.
Companies are finding it difficult to 
kick-start big data projects partially because of the myths and misconceptions surrounding big data. FictionIt is a 
replacement for 
the current BI 
platform  It is only needed for massive data 
setsIt is only 
available from 
the open-source 
communityIt is only used for unstructured 
dataIt is only used for 
customer 
analyticsFact We see big data 
being 
complimentary to  
existing business 
intelligence 
investments. The analytical techniques used 
for big data 
analytics are 
equally applicable 
with smaller data 
sets.There are plenty 
of major vendors 
throwing their 
weight behind 
commercial big 
data offerings. Big data tools and technologies can 
cope with a wide 
variety of 
structured and 
unstructured 
data. Big data has been 
used for a wide 
variety of 
applications 
ranging from 
customer 
analytics through 
to search engines and IT operations. 
However, it can 
be seen as a 
disruption to 
established 
information 
management 
strategies and 
requires thinking 
to analyse  the 
ways in which  it 
can be best deployed to 
coexist with the 
current BI 
investments.Big data provides an architectural 
blueprint for 
storing and 
analysing large 
amounts of 
diverse data. However, these 
same vendors are 
lining up behind a 
few, leading open 
source players. It can handle 
mountains of 
structured data 
generated by web 
apps, machines, 
sensors and  
enables 
enterprises to 
perform analysis 
on them real-time. Some of the recent areas for 
big data usage 
are   IT security 
analytics, fraud 
prevention, 
operations 
analytics, risk 
analysis and  
predictive 
analytics, etc. 
16 PwCEnterprises seek to use new sources and 
varieties of data to gain strategic insight, increase innovation, create new products 
and services and improve operations 
across the organisation. Big data holds the promise to deliver insight and intelligence when and where it is needed in order to make and implement both strategic as well  
operational decisions faster, smarter and 
more effectively.
The barrier 
Companies are challenged as to where to 
start in order to realise the promise of big data. Faced with the complexity of vast 
and varied sources  
of new data, companies often delay the 
exploration of big data due to a lack  
of the following:
• Business justification
• Access to necessary technologies
• Access to necessary talent and skill sets
• Understanding  possible changes to 
information systems, architectures, people as well as  processes that may  
be necessary to realise the benefits of big data
The solution 
Initial exploration of big data need not 
require large investments in time or resources.  An effective pilot will provide the direction necessary to determine where to make incremental investments. 
As selected big data pilots mature into  
full initiatives, changes will be necessary 
in people, processes as well as technologies. However, with a clearly articulated big data strategy, investment 
levels, costs and benefits can be defined 
and managed effectively.
An effectively designed and executed big 
data pilot can quickly and cost-effectively 
demonstrate the potential of big data and guide the development of the business case to further invest in and implement sustainable big data solutions. In many 
cases, pilots provide direct as well as 
immediate insights into pressing business issues, and this result in changes in avenues such as strategy, increased 
innovation and improved operations.Managing the pilot project may vary 
depending on the business use case and the organisation profile, but the approach 
for the big data pilot project is fairly 
standardised. Key steps involved in the successful implementation of a big data pilot project are as follows:
• Definition of business use case
• Identification of the pilot project team
• Design and implementation of the 
analytics solution
• Visualisation of the results
• Measurement of total cost of ownership (TCO) and return on investment (ROI)
• Business value proposition
• Development of expansion plan
Getting on-board with 
big data

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    17
PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey1 provides insights into what companies are actually 
doing with big data today
Opportunities Challenges 
•	Almost two-thirds (62%) agreed that big 
data can give the organisation a competitive advantage
•	Forty-eight per cent of respondents  report actively integrating third-party data into existing internal data sources•	Fifty-eight per cent report that transitioning from data to insight is a major challenge
•	Forty-one per cent indicate that their current systems cannot process large volumes of data from different sources
•	Twenty-five per cent indicate that they lack a sufficient pipeline of talent to undertake a deep analysis of big data
India and global scenario2 in big 
data adoption 
Indian organisations are realising the 
importance of big data.  Our survey  results indicate that around every two out of three 
The survey also summarises insights 
gathered after meeting executives from many leading companies.  Certain selected 
companies have moved big data initiatives 
beyond a pilot stage after conducting exploratory pilots in areas such as improved understanding of customer preferences and experience, identification 
of untapped revenue opportunities and 
improved operational efficiency. To what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statement – Harnessing ‘big 
data’ will give my organisation a competitive edge
Rest of the 
world-5% -6% 38% 23%
India -5% -10% 27% 43%
Strongly disagree Disagree Agree Agree strongly Don’t know
However, our common observation is that 
a large percentage of companies are actively pursuing methodologies which 
will help them explore ways in which to 
apply big data through pilot initiatives. These companies are actively exploring big data pilot projects and are seeking to identify the business challenges and issues 
that lend themselves to a big data pilot 
and proof of concept.respondents in India believe that harnessing ‘big data’ will give their organisations a competitive edge. This figure is more than the US (65%), the UK (56%) and the global average (61%).
1 The PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey was conducted in September and October of 
2012 and surveyed 1,108 senior executives globally
2 PwC’s 5th Annual Digital IQ Survey - The India Story, May 2013
18 PwCInternet of things and 
big data
The term, the internet of things (IoT) refers 
to a situation where objects or devices that are connected together and exchange data 
with each other, without any intervention 
such as machine-to-machine (M2M) communication. For example, a wearable wrist band connecting to the smartphone through bluetooth technology and 
uploading the steps count while exercising, 
calories burnt and sleeping patterns data.  
Today, the IoT revolution is fuelled by  
the low-cost sensors, ubiquitous 
connectivity and common development 
platform that allow any devices to connect to the internet.
Such smart devices have been brought to 
the consumer market to a large extent only 
in past couple of years, however such 
devices existed in the other segments such as manufacturing, healthcare, aviation, retail, transportation and logistics for a long time. They have always been 
generating data in large volumes and in high velocity. However, not all data was 
processed or utilised to generate intelligence due to the lack of a system that 
can really handle all of that data.
For an instance, radio frequency 
identification (RFID) technology has been in the market for few decades. Until 
recently, it was mainly used in the asset 
management, inventory control, shipping and receiving area. Areas such as production tracking, usage patterns and compliance were considered as nice-to-
have features. However, with the advent of 
the big data technology, enterprises are increasingly leveraging the big data  to process all of the data generated by the devices and bring out the valuable insights 
that they were never been  
able to uncover. 
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    19Key characteristics of big data 
technologies such as massive parallelisation and rapid scalability allows 
enterprises to process stream  
of data from the IoT and transform them 
from data to information to intelligence at a lower cost. With companies now being able to rent processing power from the 
cloud in a pay-per-use model, they can  
deploy more sensors to generate additional data and process not only the existing high volume, velocity, variety 
and veracity data but also similar data 
from newer IoT. Companies will understand their enterprise better  
and increase the utilisation and effectiveness of their resources  
which will open-up doors for growth, innovation and business opportunities.
When companies have better tools and 
more cycle time, data scientists will be able to seek larger data sets and iterate 
more in order to refine their questions and 
find better answers. Visualisation capabilities and more intuitive user interfaces will make at  
least the basic exploration possible for 
vast majority of the people in the 
workforce. By then, visualisation and  
user interface improvements will make it possible to spread ad hoc analytics capabilities across the workplace to every 
user role.  At the same time, data 
scientists,  people with a creative ability  
to generate useful hypotheses to simulate and model a business  have never been in 
more demand.
Tight integration between big data and 
IoT means that companies can avoid difficult situations which mostly occur due to the lack of information and the 
ability to predict the occurrence of an 
event. With the help of IoT and big data, 
businesses will be able to track usage patterns, and plan accordingly, not only 
for spikes, but also for quite periods as 
well, thus increasing the operational efficiency.
To reap the benefits of IoT, companies will 
have to make a host of changes, both technical as well as cultural within the organisation. Shortly, IoT will become mainstream and when that happens early 
adopters will be able stay ahead of the 
curve and the followers will be left behind to catch up with their competitors.Big Data technologies
Better access to resultsMore data sources
A broader culture of inquiry,
increased awareness and better decisions
Better growth, innovation and new 
business opportunitiesMore focus on key metrics
How big data affects IoT adoption for an enterprise
20 PwCHow to get value out 
of IoT?After big data, IoT is the next buzz word 
that is generating a huge amount of attention in many industries today. 
Considering the amount of traction it is 
gaining in many leading companies, it is hard to ignore the fact that we are about to witness the rapid evolution of IoT. IoT projects are able to secure investments in 
many leading companies because 
information is still navigating through traditional routes such as manual entries, extract, transform and load (ETL) tools 
and databases, management reports, 
batch crawlers, and sometimes even one-off purchased data from suppliers. Such methods are sluggish and inefficient for today’s rapidly growing information 
world. Supported by these traditional 
methods and systems, companies are unable to keep up with the rate at which trends are evolving these days.A large number of companies are taking IoT beyond the experiment phase, and generating real value out of IoT. Many 
products manufactures have either built 
or building new business models that will generate revenue even after devices leave the store shelves. Most of which are through service platforms which are 
capable of performing subscriber service, 
integrated development environment, application programming interfaces (APIs) for sharing information, cloud data 
storage, device management, analytics, 
security and  privacy. This post-transaction relationship reinvents the engagement with customers by reaching beyond the transaction and focuses on 
helping customers achieve the personal 
goals they buy the product for. IoT makes this approach possible with the help of set of emerging technologies such as wireless communications, cloud-based processing, 
sensors, embeddable computers, and real 
time big data analytics.
Allstate insurance company
Insurance providers have been 
experimenting with the computer 
device for the car that monitors 
customers driving behaviour and reports it back to the provider over a wireless network. The providers use data to adjust insurance rates based on 
the driving behaviour patterns. 
Adoption of this telematics technology is relatively slow in the insurance industry because of its post-incident 
feedback nature. Currently, Allstate 
Insurance is exploring a more active approach which is real-time feedback to help drivers become safer. A safer 
driver gets a lower premium and 
becomes less of a risk, which means fewer payouts by Allstate. Whenever the driver makes a risky move, the device can give immediate feedback 
using a glowing red light on the 
dashboard or a sound that says, ‘That was a risky move’. In the trials of the usage-based telematics product with Allstate employees, 25% initially scored 
in the safe zone, but over the course of 
the test, that figure rose to 75%
 3. “In the long run, insurance 
companies that really use 
telematics successfully will use it 
to change their customers’ 
exposure to loss.”   
- Fred Cripe, former executive, vice 
president of Allstate insurance 
company.
3 Allstate Insurance, “Allstate announces crowd 
sourcing effort to test usage-based insurance 
product,” news release, July 25, 2012.The value businesses receive is a deeper relationship with and advocacy  
from the customers
Trust Achieves Achieves
Personal 
goals
Consumption dataBusiness goals: Monetisable 
customer advocacy  Personalised, augmented, 
enhanced value
$
The 
customer
The 
company

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    21“With the granularity of the 
information we collect, we have a much richer understanding of the 
health of the machine and can 
diagnose much more accurately.”  - Jim Ingrassia, he is the vice president of the solutions support division at Konica Minolta.Konica Minolta
For about a decade, Konica Minolta has 
been using digitised consumption of its copiers as a means to improve products, services, and overall value. Originally, 
they developed remote monitoring 
capability to provide feedback for product engineering and research and development. Remote monitoring allows the engineers to remotely see every signal 
in the machine. They can detect low 
voltages, internal jams, and faulty signals on PCBs, and everything happening in the machine - periodically or on demand. Although developed for engineering and 
design purposes, that capability has led 
Konica Minolta to find other ways to use it. Today, they use remote monitoring to enhance their services and their support 
for their products to their channel 
partners and end customers. They were 
able to build significant value-added 
capabilities with the remote monitoring feature. Today, they offer these capabilities to empower around 7,000 to 8,000 technicians in the US.By going beyond the transaction with its 
copiers, Konica Minolta improves product 
designs and makes post-sales support easier on customers and more profitable for the company. Konica Minolta has a highly configurable system for collecting 
consumption data directly from copiers. 
End- customers experience fewer problems, faster service, and improved satisfaction. 
Konica Minolta gains insight into the 
following areas:
• Usage patterns
• Proactive alerts of potential issues that 
produce fewer service calls 
• Additional  efficient stockpiling
• Better information on product 
vulnerabilities and defects 
• Appropriate changes to new units that reduce future service costs. 
 All of this data improves Konica Minolta’s overall processes.

22 PwC
Studio Roosegarde
Daan Roosegaarde, an artist, inventor, 
and entrepreneur whose Studio Roosegaarde consults on interactive design for human space has done several 
projects that use digital technologies to 
provide integrated seamless experiences across physical and digital domains. He has proposed reimagining the highway design in a way that exemplifies the 
concept of an augmented experience. He 
notes that billions of dollars are spent to make cars smarter, but not the roads that they travel. He questioned the need to use sensors on highways (many already 
have them for traffic monitoring and the 
detection of hazardous materials) to interact more intelligently with drivers, based on local conditions.
The Smart Highway concept 
4  proposes 
using signs that are painted on the roads 
and appear only below a certain temperature to display warnings about 
icy conditions, or that are connected to wind sensors to display only during high 
winds. When these warnings appear on static year-round signs, they are more likely to be ignored. Lane markers, such 
as those designating carpool lanes or 
express lanes that skip some exits, could also be made digital, so they change with traffic flow and volume. They could be made with photosensitive materials that 
keep them lit at night and charged via 
solar power during the day. Streetlights can  have detectors so that they turn on only when cars are nearby.
The Oaks
At the Oaks, a senior care facility in 
Orangeburg, South Carolina, semi-
independent patients living in care facility settings or residential home settings are monitored with Wi-Fi connected sensors 
so practitioners can see if someone is 
immobile for a worrying length of time which could indicate a fall or fainting spell, or if they are moving around in the night, suggesting they are not sleeping. Such assisted care facilities have long had buzzers that patients use to call for help, and their staffs have regularly performed in-person check-ins, but the connected 
sensors give the facility more immediate 
context and patterns that can reveal unknown problems.
There are many potential goals for such a 
service.  One of them is to prevent 
emergencies. “We use this technology to 
try to predict something before it happens,” says James McGee, President and CEO of the Oaks. The direct benefits to the resident are obvious: better, smarter 
care.  The facility is also digitising the 
consumption of services to rethink the business process behind a service (healthcare, in this case) as a proactive, 
preventive service rather than a 
reactionary, crisis oriented one.
4 For more information, see http://www.studioroosegaarde.net/project/smart-highway/photo/#smart-highway
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    23
Conclusion
With relatively faster adoption of IoT supported 
by  continuing reduction in the size and price of 
sensors, and the ability to network every device 
is propelling companies to  fully engage with customers, going beyond transactions,  to goal 
oriented,  post-transaction relationships.  
Digitisation of consumption and the convergence of the physical and digital worlds 
are creating opportunities to turn single 
transactions into long standing relationships. 
The convergence of the physical world with the 
digital world will put stress on other parts of 
business and IT operations. In particular, it will increase the burden of data storage, tagging, 
management, and analysis and related 
activities. Solutions emerging from mobile and social technologies and big data analytics will 
address some of these issues.
Finally, the businesses that fuse digitised 
consumption with an augmented experience in the service of the customer’s personal goals will 
find a new level of success.
24 PwC
Cloud computing
Get your cloud  strategy right
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    25
Cloud computing has moved from a hype 
to a must-have service model. In 2013, this phenomenon has seen a burst of new 
services, products, companies as well as 
entrepreneurs.  It promises lower upfront costs, greater business agility, rapid scalability and a reduced burden on the internal IT management. Therefore, CIOs 
of several medium and large enterprises 
are now adding cloud-based solutions to their existing IT services. However, before they can fully-leverage the benefits of 
cloud technologies, they need to 
understand the organisational impacts of this move. Moving the infrastructure to the cloud is not an IT change, but a transformational change which needs to 
be assessed across strategy, structure, 
people, process and technology.
As the IT landscape undergoes rapid 
changes, it might become even more 
complex in the short-term. This in turn can create significant integration and operational challenges which need to be effectively managed. Though cloud 
computing brings in business and 
financial benefits, it also requires to be addressed from a business strategy, finance, compliance, tax, enterprise architecture and most importantly 
cultural point of view. What is becoming 
evident in many enterprises is most CIO and chief technology officers (CTOs) have come out of the learning phase to adopt a 
cloud strategy with a three to five  year 
roadmap to refresh the enterprise application and infrastructure. However, some of the questions that immediately come up are as follows:
• In a rapidly changing technology 
landscape should enterprises look at a short-term (around 18-months) roadmap compared to a long-term 
(around three years) roadmap?
• Does the cloud strategy address some 
key functions such as business or IT strategy, finance, compliance, tax, 
culture and enterprise architecture?
The right recipe for a successful cloud 
strategy is to define the assessment areas, use the right tools and apply the appropriate methodology. Cloud 
computing is now less about technology 
and more about business strategy.
26 PwCExecutive concernAs businesses begin formulating a cloud 
strategy, some of the key considerations for the C-suite are as follows:
Considerations for the chief 
executive officer (CEO)
• How can cloud help generate new 
sources of revenue and bolster our 
competitive standing?
• How do you need to rethink innovation in a world where cloud 
infrastructures create instant environments to try new ideas?
• What transformations could your business undergo with the help of cloud solutions?
Considerations for the chief financial officer (CFO)
• How will cloud impact cost 
structures and data governance? 
• Are you accounting for how cloud can impact your revenue model or tax structure?
• How do you analyse and benchmark 
current IT costs, and how will you 
benchmark internal IT effectiveness against external cloud providers?
• What are the implications of moving to external clouds from the accounting and tax management perspective?
Considerations for the chief information officer (CIO)
• What new business opportunities 
will deliver the best return on our 
cloud investments? 
• Have you developed a strategy for helping business unit leaders use cloud services without creating security or compliance risks?
• Which of the CEO’s strategic imperatives can cloud solutions  
help right away?  Do you have a roadmap to evaluate and deploy the cloud infrastructure, public, private or hybrid? Considerations for the chief operating officer (COO)
• How are we going to address the 
challenges of near infinite scalability and highly variable demand?
• How can cloud-based solutions benefit development teams from product initiation to delivery?
• How are competitors using the cloud 
to enhance their offerings?
Considerations for the chief 
human resource officer (CHRO)
• How can cloud computing reduce 
human capital management costs and 
become an engine for growth?
• As your organisation moves to the cloud, how will you support the need for new customer service, technical 
and marketing skill sets?
• How can cloud tools transform 
attracting, recruiting, training, evaluating and retaining employees?
Considerations for the chief compliance officer (CCO)
• As we see an increase in cloud 
adoption across the organisation, how are employees keeping up with 
various compliance requirements?
• How will our data be protected? What 
security assurances does the service provider offer?
• Does our risk management system address cyber-risks that can derail  
a new technology-enabled business strategy?
• How will data governance, risk compliance, tax and regulatory issues 
be handled in a cloud environment?
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    27Cloud strategyaIn the past year, cloud computing had 
gained enough traction and has featured in almost every board room discussion. 
There is a great deal of expectation for 
cloud computing to deliver the business value and at the same time reduce costs. Enterprises especially in the past two years has tasted moderate to high success 
as to whether it is subscribing to cloud 
services or deploying cloud enabled products. They have now started asking complicated questions such as the 
following: • How can we integrate SaaS 
applications across multiple providers?
• How can we leverage low-cost storage for storing archive data?
• Which framework will help us to characterise workloads and place them across public and private clouds? 
• How can I leverage and scale my cloud to launch the next generation mobility, social and analytics solutions?
Stages of cloud strategy formulation
Opportunities from 
workshops and assessment 
of current stateOpportunities from impact 
analysis and high-level -
TOM development
PwC’s assessment and e valuation 
methodologiesData collection and 
discussionsInitial business case
PwC’s cloud 
adoption strategy High-l evel TOMStrategic roadmap
StrategyAssessment Trends
a Cloud computing gets strategic, PwC view issue 13
28 PwCEssentially, businesses have now 
transitioned from ‘how’ to ‘what’ with regard to selection and use of cloud 
services. With consumerisation of IT, 
rapid growth of mobile computing devices and increased availability of cloud based services to support new technologies, business are feeling 
empowered to test new solutions. IT 
departments need to move fast enough before businesses start procuring and consuming cloud services. In addition to 
this governance of all these services will 
lead to even more complications. Though cloud is transforming the IT landscape, enterprises are realising that it is more than that. They perceive cloud computing 
as an engine for business growth.
By providing the freedom to use a 
plethora of services, simplified 
management, unlimited resources, rapid service provisioning cloud computing can provide a strategic role for the businesses. Cloud allows business to say ‘yes’ more 
often than not. It enables enterprises to 
focus on innovation by converting ideas into products or solutions by providing a platform where the cost of failure is minimal.  Cloud also provides the ability 
of rapid service provisioning such as 
catering to the holiday shopping traffic for a website, providing seamless service integration during mergers and 
acquisitions (M&A) or integrating 
applications across two businesses. Situation such as these can induce complexity in the environment. With this cloud computing brings IT and business 
close to each other and become a true 
business enabler.
In its objective to bring the synergies of IT 
and business together enterprises need to create a comprehensive business strategy for cloud computing. Created for the business and not just for the CIO or CTO, 
the strategy needs to clearly articulate 
how cloud computing can support the business and enable them to take informed decisions. 

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    29How does cloud affect 
key business areas?Strategy
Cloud computing has now 
become a news lens through which business considerations are 
viewed. For example, a 
start-up company can subscribe to cloud services and rapidly roll-out an app which 
might find quick 
acceptance with several thousand users when 
compared to an existing paid app 
already in the same marketplace. In such 
cases, supply, demand, competitiveness are constantly challenged, and as more enterprises move into this zone the framework involved in creating the 
traditional strategy become irrelevant 
giving rise to an agile way of solving problems. The strategy for the business needs to be nimble. Businesses now need to view strategy through the lens of 
cloud computing and it is important that 
the strategy and the vision are in sync with each other.   
  
Finance
Cloud computing will 
have an impact on 
finance functions such as financial planning and management, budgeting, governance 
and risk management. 
One of the key changes will be in the evaluation of the TCO between the cloud model and the traditional model. With CFOs 
considerably influencing IT investments, 
key attributes like depreciation, cashflow, differential savings, Net present value (NPV), pay back period and return on investment are being 
given an in depth treatment. The 
financial calculations gets a little more complicated where a business has implemented a private cloud by leasing hardware and software from a service 
provider. In this case there are bound to 
be questions on financing the investment, billing model by the provider and charge back by the business to its departments. In all cases for any 
initiative on cloud a clear financial value 
proposition holds the key.Security
Businesses are 
increasingly inter-
connected, integrated, and interdependent. Technologies such as 
cloud, mobility and 
bring-your-own-device (BYOD) are enabled even before a security strategy is place.  Such 
an evolved business 
eco-system also imperils organisations by putting them at the mercy of adversaries who are likely to exploit these technologies and processes to 
disrupt operations and even destroy 
businesses. As a result, security threats have become a critical business risk to global organisations.
In the recent PwC Global State of 
Information Security Survey 2014,  
it was found about (47%) of  
respondents use some form of cloud computing, a healthy gain of 24% from the year before. Among those who use cloud services, 59% of respondents 
report that their security posture has 
improved. Hence, it is surprising to learn that many organisations have not seriously addressed the security implications of cloud services. 
According to the survey, respondents 
that used cloud services, only 18% say they have policies governing the use of cloud. With the rapid growth of cloud computing, the 2014 survey gauged the 
respondent’s priorities in preparing for 
threats across five key categories. It depicts the safeguards that are not in place must be a priority over the next 12 months. This shows that technology 
investments precede the foundational 
security strategy.Lack of policies for cloud 
computing represents a serious security gap for businesses. The 
proliferation of data being shared, 
in combination with the increase in the use of mobile devices, creates an environment in which cloud services are more widely used and potentially abused by 
employees. At the same time, it is 
essential that businesses ensure that the third-party cloud providers agree to follow security practices”.  
Joshua McKibben, PwC Director.
30 PwCCompliance
Cloud computing 
provides business and financial benefits but it requires organisations 
to cede control to a 
third-party cloud service provider for risk mitigation and management. When an 
organisation subscribes 
to cloud services, the controls of the cloud 
service provider will effectively be the 
control of the organisation which in turn 
must fit with the existing defined controls. In regulated industries such as healthcare and financial services there are specific compliance and governance 
requirements. It is vital that there is a 
clear understanding on the regulator and agency, compliance, law and standards that needs to be adhered for the cloud deployment and service 
models. It is important to identify the 
right cloud service provider that will help the organisation realise its objective while reducing risk and providing the required trust and 
transparency.
Companies that do business in the cloud 
remain concerned about security, and 
are raising their eyebrows about service availability and data privacy. These are making business decisions based on the 
cloud providers’ ability to provide a 
secure, stable environment and at a lower cost. Cloud providers, security vendors, integrators, and consultants  
all have an important role to play to 
meet the increasingly rigorous needs  
of their customers, industry groups,  
and regulators
 5.Tax 6
Using a cloud 
particular cloud deployment or service 
model can have 
different tax consequences. For example, a business hosting a private  
cloud on its own premise versus hosting its private cloud on a service provider 
location (leased 
hardware or own hardware) can have different tax considerations. With PaaS and SaaS service models, tax considerations can 
get a complicated. From a cloud 
provider’s perspective they face material income tax or indirect tax implications depending on the cloud infrastructure and type of revenue 
model employed. Based on the nature 
of cloud service and deployment models it can give rise to international tax jurisdiction issues. Cloud purchasers can encounter unforeseen 
and at times significant income and 
sales tax variations, depending on the type of cloud services they have contracted for.
In the quest to achieve these tax 
benefits, its related implications are 
often overlooked or ignored by many 
businesses thereby resulting in unintended consequences. It is therefore recommended to conduct a proper analysis before subscribing to cloud services and these needs to be done before implementing the cloud strategy.
Culture
In any organisation, technology 
adoption happens all the time in some form of other and therefore, a consistent process is the key to enabling people to 
successfully adopt and use technology. 
In a recent internal research, PwC gathered the following insights:
• Managing expectations, anxiety and  
insecurity, communication and engaging teams are critical success factors 
• Eight out of 10 technology implementations fail due to lack of 
effective change management
• Nine out of 10  significant barriers to achieving successful change are on 
the people and softer issues 
Cloud computing brings in a transformational change and it is 
critical that the change  
is embedded and sustained in the organisation and to that to happen, culture 
holds paramount 
importance.
Final thoughts
Cloud computing has 
transformed the way in 
which IT services are 
delivered to the business. It 
has transformed from a cool technology to a mainstream technology thereby delivering significant financial and 
business benefits if implemented in the 
right way.  
So is cloud computing part of your 
business strategy?“You can’t fight today’s threats 
with yesterday’s strategies”  
Gary Loveland,  principal in 
PwC’s security practice
5 PwC thought leadership titled protecting your brand in the cloud - Transparency and trust through enhanced reporting, November 2011
6 Reference: PwC thought leadership  titled How does one tax the cloud?, January 2012
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    31Investment plans around cloud
Investment trends in cloud computing
Source: PwC’s 5th Digital IQ Survey 17
16
30
24
21
37
39
32
40 20 0Public cloud infrastructure 
Public cloud applications
Public cloud
Americas Europe Asia-PacificIn 2013, 53% of India’s CEOs are 
planning cuts. 
Source: 16th Annual Global CEO Survey - 
The view from IndiaFuture of ERPCEOs are looking to counter growth 
elated threats by balancing efficiency with agility. Cost restructuring continues 
to be high on the agenda. However 
businesses are instead trying to cut costs without cutting value. In such times, speeding the adoption of key technologies such as social networks, 
mobile computing, analytics, cloud 
computing (SMAC) and other emerging technologies will transform businesses, accelerate wealth creation and help 
achieve the core objectives of fostering 
growth, meeting disparate consumer needs, reaching out to markets, in order to compete and succeed.
With cloud computing, businesses are 
able to avail almost infinite compute power, storage and network in a pay-as-you-go model, without having to invest in any hardware upfront. Apart from infrastructure, cloud also provides cost-effective testing as well as development platforms, backup as well 
as applications. How long it will be 
before enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems begin to exploit the full benefits of the cloud? More importantly, 
is cloud ERP a one-size-fit-all solution 
for all type of enterprises?
PwC’s 5th Digital IQ Survey also revealed that the major reasons for investment into cloud computing include increased productivity, increased innovation and reduced costs.
Americas Europe Asia-Pacific54
39
48
56
39
49
52
43
52
% 40 20 0Public cloud infrastructure 
Public cloud applications
Public cloud
60
32 PwCWinds of change
Non-core business processes such as 
customer relationship management (CRM) and human resources (HR) or payroll have reached a high maturity 
level in terms of cloud adoption. On the 
other hand, core business processes such as financial management, supply chain, production planning, scheduling, etc have been slow to adopt cloud. However, 
business environments are now gearing 
up for a change.  Most of them have either   indicated high levels of interest or have at least started to consider the option of cloud for ERP.
On-premise ERP: A challenge
Enterprises need ERP systems in order to manage day-to-day operations. Today, most ERP systems offer a full range of 
solutions, catering to every aspect of the 
business. Hence, it makes more sense for an enterprise to create a disaster recovery 
(DR) set-up for ERP systems. 
However, one of the major concerns facing enterprises today is the overall infrastructure and operational costs of on-premise ERP production and 
secondary environments. Implementing 
and maintaining an on-premise DR for the ERP system adds to cost, as it implies managing other systems, that may or may not be used at all, but are critical for 
business. Millions of dollars are spent on 
the implementation, ongoing support and the operations of ERP systems. 
Business 
challengesOperational challenges
Low agility of traditional IT service delivery in order to meet the changing business demandsConsiderable costs incurred in the maintenance and the support of the ERP infrastructure
Forty to 60% year-on-year growth of enterprise dataNeed for reliable and cost-effective backup and disaster recovery options
Ever-changing compliance and regulatory landscapeInefficient service level agreements as well as  operational inefficiencies, thereby reducing performance
 Solution lies in the cloud
With a sound cloud business platform in 
place, enterprises can innovate around new products as well as services in order 
to generate additional sources of revenue 
Regardless of whether an IaaS model (with a public or private cloud) or a SaaS-based model is being used, an enterprise can transform IT 
departments, streamline and scale 
operations and fuel innovation. A cloud- based ERP strategy enables reduced procurement costs as well as 
effort in non-core areas of maintenance, 
continuous upgrade and support.
Cloud adoption drivers
• Cost reduction seems to be the 
major driver for cloud adoption followed by increased productivity and innovation.
• Twenty-five per cent of companies worldwide feel that the adoption of cloud helps reduce cost.
• Twenty per cent feel that cloud adoption will fuel innovation and increase productivity.
Source: PwC’s 5th Digital IQ Survey
Cloud is shaping up the ERP providers 
market
Various signs prevailing in the current 
business landscape are indicative of the changing ERP market. NetSuite has 
released its cloud-based software-as-a-
service integrated business management software. Other newer ERP players such as Workday, Plex Systems, Infor and Epicor, etc have entered the market with 
their cloud versions of ERP solutions. 
SAP’s acquisition of SuccessFactor indicates the gravity of threats posed by smaller cloud ERP players. This is forcing 
larger players to re-think their product 
strategies. They are responding either by modifying their software, so as to fit the cloud model (e.g. Microsoft Dynamics) or 
by building separate products from 
ground up (e.g. SAP Business ByDesign). SAP has certified Amazon Web Services (AWS) for hosting its ERP on AWS cloud. Also, SAP’s recent announcement of its HANA platform-based applications,  
to be available via cloud and Oracle’s development in enterprise grade ERP cloud solution continue to generate interest.
Key triggers for cloud ERP adoption
The key triggers for adoption of cloud-based ERP solutions include the following:
•	Flexibility and scalability: Highly 
scalable cloud infrastructure can respond to the changing business 
requirements, thereby improving 
business agility. 
•	Innovation: Offload non-core 
activities such as maintenance and support activities to the cloud provider, and instead, focus on innovation and business growth. 
•	Reduced total cost of ownership (TCO): Minimise initial capital 
expenditure and move to an operating 
expenditure model. The pay-as-you-go 
model of cloud ensures payment only for the time duration when the secondary environment is in use.
•	Accessibility: Ensure seamless 
connectivity and accessibility.
•	Security:  Invest in firewall and IPS 
protection with custom policy 
management, certifications (ISO 
27001, BS7799, ITIL, CMM level 5) and stringent security policies.
•	Regulations and compliances: Comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, the European Union Data Protection Act, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and 
HIPAA, and other industry-specific 
regulatory compliance requirements.
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    33
How to approach cloud-based ERP 
solutions?
Is cloud-based ERP the solution for all 
enterprises? There is no one-size-fit-all solution or framework to determine the 
answer to this question. We believe that 
the migration to cloud will be a gradual process, and that the cloud will co-exist along with traditional infrastructure. 
Category Decision-making parameters
Project type •	First time implementation of ERP
•	Migration of the existing ERP system
•	Extension of the current ERP system’s capabilities to include additional functionalities
Size and type of an enterprise •	Small
•	Medium
•	Large
•	Subsidiaries of larger enterprises
ERP system landscape complexity •	Configuration of the proposed ERP system
•	Current technology (infrastructure as well as  applications) landscape, including system 
software (operating system and database)
•	Integration requirements
•	Size of the ERP footprint
Business requirements •	Number of concurrent users
•	Input output per second (IOPS) requirements
•	High availability (HA)
•	Recovery time objective (RTO) and recovery  point objective (RPO) for disaster recovery systems
•	Other functionalities
Risk and compliance •	Industry-specific compliance and regulatory requirements
•	Data protection and security requirement
•	Data sovereignty
34 PwCDevOps: Bridging the 
paradox of speed and stabilityThe onus is on companies to quickly 
release their products and services into the market in order to stay competitive 
with the advent of ‘online’. As a result, 
the software release cycle is also changing from infrequent and major releases to frequent and small changes. This new approach is called continuous 
delivery. Continuous delivery ensures 
that the code is always ready for release whenever required. A code is ready for release once it is built using standard 
practices, and goes through a complete 
testing process.
DevOps (a portmanteau of 
development and operations) is 
collaboration between development 
and operations teams and brings a holistic view to the delivery, thereby reducing time-to-market and stability to the enterprise.
Waterfall model versus continuous 
delivery approach
TimeFrequent and small releases 
Less riskChange
Infrequent and large releases 
High risk
TimeChangeIntroduction to DevOps
Continuous delivery
Traditional software development 
follows a waterfall model approach which takes into account aspects such 
as requirement gathering, planning, 
software code generation, testing,  
followed by the release. This model is 
a lengthy process and takes a long time to reach completion. This, coupled with the organisation’s legacy 
infrastructure and traditional 
on-premise model, hampers the IT team to rapidly allocate new infrastructure in order to meet the business needs. 
In today’s rapidly changing 
environment, organisations, especially web-scale companies, experience rapid changes in their business 
models. In order to stay competitive in 
such a dynamic market organizations need to meet the changing demands of their users and stakeholders. Given these challenges, an IT organisation 
needs to adopt a continuous delivery 
model   in an environment where business needs are continuously changing within days and weeks, 
instead of months and years. The 
continuous delivery approach involves an iterative approach in aligning IT strategy with avenues such as business strategy, planning, development, 
deployment, monitoring and 
optimisation, through metrics and user feedback. Agile software development methods adopted within the continuous delivery approach 
involves various technologies such as 
the continuous integration tool that automates the code build, test as well as deployment. DevOps is an approach involving the change levers across 
people, process and technology and is 
an integral component of an enterprise wide continuous delivery model.
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    35 Continuous delivery framework
What is DevOps?
DevOps is an approach which enables 
collaboration between development and 
operations teams, and at the same time 
ensures a consistent IT alignment with the business and also rendering stability to the organisation.  It entails agile methods for software development 
teams while at the same time, also 
ensures stability of operations in supporting the rapidly changing production environment. This leads to smoother as well as progressive changes 
in the application environment vis-a-vis 
the drastic and random impact of large scale changes in the waterfall model. In order to reap the real benefits of agile development, the underlying 
infrastructure environment needs to 
support multiple parallel instances of same applications. On the other hand, the legacy application environment will 
not support swift application changes. 
Commercial off-the shelf packaged applications do not support a high level of customisation, and hence, there is a pressing need to look at an open-source 
code for DevOps.Need for DevOps
Enterprises are focussed on delivering 
multiple applications across a variety of devices. In addition, the banking and 
retail sectors are launching mobile 
applications to enhance their customers’ experience. Organisations from these sectors have been investing in scalable infrastructure and using agile 
methodology in software development. 
Developers are looking to embrace agile software development methods and incorporating continuous as well as frequent changes to the production 
environment, so that the IT set-up 
remains aligned with the business, while at the same time assuring high levels of quality. On the contrary, the IT operations team of an organisation always prefers a 
stable and static environment. 
The DevOps approach to software 
development will help in easing out the friction and conflict between the development and operations teams, and 
will also help both sides in meeting their 
respective objectives.Best practices and tools 
For an effective DevOps strategy, an 
organisation needs to adhere to the best 
practices adopted, and incorporate 
industry standard tools within its environment.
Version control: A centralised 
development version repository used to be a bottleneck for an enterprise having different groups of people, distributed 
across multiple locations across the globe. 
The distributed version control system 
(DVCS) enables each developer to 
maintain their local version repositories, and hence speeds up the productivity process. Currently, Git and Mercurial are the best available tools for DVCS.
Content management: Distributing 
content through emails leads to enormous duplication and increases the storage requirement. Tools such as Mediawiki can 
be leveraged so as to create an index 
structure with detailed pages linked to it.
Configuration	management:	An 
automated way of configuration management means that any machine 
can be provisioned with an application 
deployed and configured automatically, by using a single command.  In order to test the resiliency of its IT environment, an organisation can use tools such as 
Chaos Monkey which makes individual 
components of a system fail in a random manner.  This is particularly helpful in testing in gauging the robustness of a system.
Continuous integration: Maintaining 
large scale projects with multiple builds can be a nightmare. Tools such as Teamcity help in automated triggering of builds, and provide holistic reports of all 
the build tests within the project. 
Whenever, a developer makes a change, it will be automatically tested through the build environment, so that any failure due to this change can be easily tracked and 
resolved. This approach ensures a correct 
working version of end-to-end build at any point in time.
Business function enablement and collaborationInterface 
automation 
Reporting 
Management 
Orchestration 
Platforms Build 
management 
Continuous 
integration 
Testing 
Deployment 
Change 
managementUser 
feedback
Communi-
cation
Right skilling
Collaboration
Development
Infrastructure Release 
managementOperationsTechnology Process People
Finance Sales and
marketing Operations Supply chainDevOps - Levers of change
governance, review, metricsBest practiceAlign
Strategy
Continuous 
deliveryPlan and develop
36 PwCPackage management and archive:  A 
package management repository 
automates installing, uninstalling, and 
updating software releases. It also helps 
in tracking changes while reducing the time to build and release. Also, archiving the build is also as important as developing the artifacts. Artifactory is 
considered to be one of the most robust 
and secured repositories in the market. NuGet and RPM are examples of package repositories.
Integrated development environment 
(IDE) agnostic build: Developers can execute their local builds by using their IDE. However, the master build should be 
able to run on any platform, and must be 
compatible with other scripts. Towards this, tools such as Ant and Nant currently drive IDE agnostic builds.
Testing: Successful implementation of 
DevOps requires an organisation to adopt 
a test-driven approach. Since it involves 
frequent changes, it is essential to plan a 
robust test strategy in order to ensure that the code changes are thoroughly tested, and chances of failure of the production environment are minimal. 
The testing starts from the unit level, 
then moves to the component level and finally goes through the acceptance test.
At the beginning of the project, the test 
team starts writing the test code, which is 
parallel to the code generation phase.
In addition, the operations team also 
starts writing the code for automated provisioning. These parallel steps help in reducing time-to-market or the release of 
a product or a software to days or even to 
minutes. Release process: Traditional versus continuous delivery
Application development
•Manual code generation
•Manual packagingOperational configuration
•Manual configuration
•Manual provisioningTesting
•Manual test scenarios
•Manual testing
Traditional release process
Time (months or years)
Application development
Operational configuration
Testing AutomatedProduction Production 
Time (minutes or days)Continuous delivery release process
In order to aid the test-driven software development approach, automated testing frameworks such as JUnit, Selenium are currently available. These 
tools provide automated record or 
playback options for authoring these tests as well as running multiple parallel tests.
Continuous deployment:   Currently, 
Chef and Puppet are the most popular 
tools for auto deployment of build 
packages or artifacts. Auto deployment 
lends consistency to the builds within the development, quality assurance, user acceptance testing, pre-production and 
production environment.Benefits 
A DevOps approach can transform 
businesses and can achieve various measurable benefits. They help in 
increasing the frequency of deployment 
of products as well as services, and thereby help in gathering valuable customer feedback which serves as a key input to innovation. Increased 
collaboration is another benefit that has 
also been observed, which thereby leads to developing the new ideas.
With this approach, enterprises can not 
only achieve cost reductions in operations 
and development, but can also roll-out 
new software and services into the market, hence creating growth as well as additional revenue opportunities.
Time-to-market is reduced significantly 
due to the agile processes, thereby 
enhancing customer experience. 
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    37Benefits through DevOps
Collaboration 
QualityCustomer base
Time to marketHeadcount
New software 
and services
Development and 
operations 
costs 
Platform reachRevenue
Deployment 
frequency
Short Medium Long
Time frameLow Medium HighImprovementIncrease
ReduceIn order to achieve the benefits of this 
approach, certain factors need to be kept in mind.
•	Agility:  Always follow a agile 
methodology to structure the tasks and 
choosing the technology
•	Legacy infrastructure: No matter what level of automation is introduced within the environment, legacy 
infrastructure and applications will 
continue to exist. Hence appropriate controls or processes need to  be in place
•	End-to-end automation : One must 
always aim for complete automation of the delivery pipeline in order to reduce 
the time-to-market and reduce errors 
due to manual intervention.
•	Continuous monitoring:  A constant 
eye needs to be on monitoring the environment and accounting key metrics.
•	Right infrastructure:  In order to run the continuous delivery approach, an 
enterprise needs to invest in the right 
type of infrastructure, that is, IaaS solutions. An IaaS solution will offer scalability to respond to varying business needs, anytime anywhere 
access of applications, and also reduce 
the TCO through the pay-as-you-go model.

38 PwC
“In future, nobody will 
buy the cow when they 
only need milk.”
Dr Devi Shetty 
Founder and  Chairman  
Narayana HealthCIO interviews
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    39In a conversation with 
PwC India, Srikanth Raman, Group CIO at Narayana Hrudalaya Hospitals, discusses how social, mobile and cloud platforms can enhance doctor-patient interaction delight for the healthcare industry.
Interview conducted  
by Ritesh PalPwC India: As the Group CIO of Narayana 
Hrudalaya Hospital, what is important to you or what are your priorities?
Sirkanth Raman: So far, all our effort 
till date has been based towards using 
IT for the administrative affairs. We 
have just step out to start on a program where we will get the clinical personnel involved in utilising IT for improving patient care. What we are trying to do is 
to make available important screens from 
our existing hospital information system (HIS) on a mobile platform. The idea being that, so far it has been difficult to 
engage the medical community (doctors) 
in electronic health record (EMR) effort because they see that this is something that is taking them away from patient care and consider it is an extra work for 
them to feed data in the way the digital 
world demand. But with the mobility system coming in and if the important modules of HIS are made available on a smart phone, then it would mean that 
the medical community will start using it 
as and when they see the patients. Then data entry will not become a separate activity. Today the antipathy towards the use of technology towards healthcare is 
because it is been perceived as a separate 
activity for different purposes and not directly associated with healthcare. The minute we take that mental block out 
and say that when a doctor comes in to 
see a patient the mobility piece will help him interact with the patient in such a way that it will have two-fold impact – firstly he will be able to get important 
information about the patient’s past 
record, and secondly that this will not impact the time taken for him to attend the patient. Instead if you want him to enter data in a desktop and a laptop  
it will actually take time away from 
patient care. 
Consider a patient has come in today 
with a file which has about 100 papers. Now with the kind of volumes a centre at Narayana Hrudalaya has to handle daily there is hardly time to read through the 
file, then attend to the patient and see 
what is wrong and decide on the next steps. So, with the manual record there is nothing we can do. We can probably 
look at it as a reassurance for the patient, 
but there is no distilled information that is making the job of a doctor easy or quick. Compare that to a mobile device in front of the doctor, which can be his 
own smart phone, where he just enters 
the patient data and it will synchronise at the backend with the database and give the last treatment details in the form of a graph or other depiction that is easy to comprehend at less time. Imagine  the ‘patient interaction delight’ that 
it can result in!! We are trying to go 
towards that. 
So far IT has been trying to act parallely 
and independently of what the clinical community need. Our idea is to synchronise this effort and not make data entry a separate chore but as a 
part of the entire process where the 
doctors can interact meaning fully with the patient community. I think that will make a big difference in the uptake and adoption of technology in that area.
I think making the HIS application or 
at least the most relevant modules of it 
like e-prescription, laboratory diagnostic 
viewing, requesting for lab space, viewing the radiology image on a mobile smart phone etc are going to be game 
changers in the way that the medical 
community adapts and accepts  the technology.
PwC India: Why is cloud computing 
taking on so much importance? What is 
the big change?
Srikanth Raman: Basically cloud 
computing is a better and more efficient way of utilising the same resources. 
Narayana Hrudalaya today has got 23 
locations and suppose we are not on a cloud platform and are trying to do everything on a traditional data centre environment, then imagine the effort 
we have to put in setting up these data 
centres and the respective disaster recovery (DR) centres. Also in this scenario, since we cannot scale up as and when demand comes in, we would 
always oversize the requirement both in 
terms of network and server. So there will be a large element of the sunk cost which will not be utilised. Maybe once in 
a month for payroll we may need extra 
processing power, or may be everyday in the evening say between 3-5 pm when we discharge somebody we may need more processing power to process 
the invoices. So in a normal, non-cloud 
environment we would have to make all those investment upfront which will be a sunk cost and you cannot really scale on demand also. However, in the cloud 
scenario we would be able to avail the 
extra CPU power and pay only for the 2 hours extra whenever we need it. So basically with cloud as soon as people need IT resources they can hire them 
rather than having to buying them. That 
is where the cloud concept will be very important.

40 PwCPwC India: How aware do you think your 
CEO and CFO are about the potential of cloud computing, and in what areas 
do they need some education? Why do 
you think a CEO and CFO should care about cloud computing and cloud based solutions?
Srikanth Raman: Luckily at Narayana 
Hrudalaya since we did not have too much of an investment in legacy systems 
when we embarked in this journey 
about three-and-half to four years ago. Today we have about 23 hospital environments and since we did not 
have too much investment in legacy 
systems we were able to quickly move to a cloud or virtualised environment. So the awareness about cloud in the top management team is quite high, because 
we have already crossed the stage of 
thinking whether data centre is required or do we have to go to cloud. 
But may be other hospitals or institutions 
may not be so lucky in the respect they may have already made significant investment in the past. One of the 
major problems for the CFOs in those 
institutions would be to consider what to do with so much sunk cost already gone in the IT infrastructure? How does he do away with it? And this is a very difficult 
decision to take. 
That is one aspect. What we can do as 
CIOs probably is to may be explain and 
tabulate those ROIs much better and explain to them how the cloud model will ensure that there will be very little 
capital expenditure (CAPEX) for IT 
instead it will be more of an operating expense (OPEX). In some of the business model we can even go for the pay-per-use model. There could be some services 
in future where we would consume the 
entire HIS and the infrastructure and the network on a usage based model. For example we could come to a model where we can say that for every OPD bill 
that is generated we would pay a vendor 
some amount and they will provide the whole thing as a service including the infrastructure, connectivity and the required software. So when we reach 
that stage it will bring predictability 
benefits to the business. So as long as they can estimate the number of patients coming in, we will be able to predict the 
IT cost very easily. There is a great joy in 
converting CAPEX to OPEX – the finance team always loves that!PwC India: How do you see the role of CIOs changing in the future?
Srikanth Raman: So far, traditionally a 
CIO was not really involved in business, he was more of a guy looking after 
the hardware and network. People 
remembered him only when there was an outage or a problem. He was not a proactive guy, he was a guy who would react to problems that is put up 
to him. But the whole way this cloud 
and social mobility platform engages it will be much of a proactive role that he will have to play. He will become 
more of a business person rather than 
an IT person. In the future you will find more and more CIOs coming from non-technology background possibly from finance background or from operations 
or management background. Because 
I see that with cloud and mobility platforms taking more precedence most of the drudgery of the IT work is going to get outsourced. So the people who 
will be running the IT shop within the IT 
organisation will be business people and management people. They will not be technology people. That will be a major change I can see.
PwC India: What were your business 
drivers for investing in cloud computing?
Srikanth Raman: One of the major 
business driver is the sheer impossibility 
for retaining good IT talent. Few years 
ago we were two hospitals now we are twenty three. Imagine the number of resources we would require if we have 
to maintain a large IT department 
including the application part, or if we are only looking at the cloud computing part and the infrastructure side then we would have to maintain all the 
servers, manage them and ensure a 
proper DR and retrieval policies. But the kind of people we will need is very difficult to recruit and more difficult to retain. Also the career path we will 
be able to give them will be limited 
because we are not in the business of computers as we are in the business of providing medical services. This is one major issue in our mind. Secondly, 
given the fact govt is building so many 
SWAN networks across the states the bandwidth cost is going to come down in future and can be a sustaining factor 
for cloud to move forward in the long 
run. And the great attraction of having a flexible model with completely opex cost was the third driver. So the most important driver is we feel running IT dept is not worthwhile for an industry like an hospital because we will not be 
able to either attract or retain the right 
talent – that is the most important one and having said that cost is also an important factor – we think in the long run in a 5 year scenario cloud will save 
us substantial cost in terms of what we 
have spent in capex and opex in the traditional model vis-a-vis cloud.
PwC India: Cloud has the potential to 
deliver multiple business benefits, however only a well defined adoption strategy and 
implementation roadmap formulated 
after proper due diligence and assessment can help leverage the benefits. What is your view?
Srikanth Raman: That is very true. 
What happens is that true cloud service providers are not many and it requires 
lot of skills to find where the pitfalls are. 
Also if one is just trying to replicate the hardware environment in a data centre and say it as a cloud environment then they are likely to oversize and therefore 
lose money on the cloud rather than 
save. The beauty about cloud is we can consume as and when as we need, so the idea is to design the cloud in such a way that it can save enough for normal 
purposes but then we should not over 
engineer. So that whenever you need there is a capability for you to ask for more and get it and pay only for that 
time. If you don’t have that perspective 
you are in trouble with the cloud. Also you should have readiness in terms of DR strategy which is becoming very important. You should also take care 
of your network environment because 
in cloud if your network goes down you are in trouble. Even if the cloud infrastructure is very strong, but if the network is weak then you are in big 
trouble. So for all our centres we have 
not one but two levels of connectivity on the MPLS followed up with one more level of redundancy in terms of the internet VPN. That’s the compelling 
point.
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    41PwC India: So what we understand is 
proper design and architecture is a key aspect for cloud adoption?
Srikanth Raman: Absolutely yes.PwC India: Is cloud security just a matter 
of people getting comfortable with it over time? How do you think cloud security will 
evolve?
Srikanth Raman: I think cloud security 
has evolved in the western world mainly 
because of the government mandate. In India may be it is still early time since we don’t have any clear safeguard provided at the government level. But 
these are bound to come. Security is 
very important but it is do-able with a good service provider. I do believe that a good service provider will be 
able to provide better security than 
individual organisations can provide for themselves. For example, today we do so many financial transactions in the internet, I think there are a lot of people 
who goes to the railway site to buy a 
ticket and they use their credit card over the net. So I don’t think there is any problem in terms of the do-ability side of the security side even for the patient 
data. It’s only a matter of taking time to 
ensure that your service provider is able to provide those standards and follow those standards. I don’t think it should be an inhibiting factor at all.
PwC India: Healthcare and 
pharmaceuticals industry has a number 
of compliance and regulations. How in 
you view the compliance issues can be addressed in the cloud?
Srikanth Raman: The fact remains 
we need to have very good security standards but then you have to look 
who can provide that better. Take the 
example of an individual organisation like Narayana Hrudalaya. Suppose it sets up its own IT infrastructure to serve its own need. Then it can implement 
a certain level of security in terms of 
whatever it can invest in security. But instead if you have a service provider who provides cloud services for a living, then it will be able to go up and scale 
in terms of security needs and provide 
whatever is the best in the current standards. Also security, compliance and regulatory standards keep on changing and enhanced. So a specialised cloud 
service provider will be in a much better 
position to adapt to those changes because they are doing it for a group of clients and not for one single client. 
Therefore they will be more adaptable 
and quicker as compared to individual institutions doing it on their own. Therefore security and compliance is not an obstacle, actually these are the prime 
factors as to why one should move to the 
cloud quickly.
PwC India: Where are you seeing 
new opportunities to deploy cloud based solutions in the healthcare and pharmaceuticals industry?
Srikanth Raman: Specifically in 
healthcare most of the mobility and cloud players are looking at patient 
based solutions on the applications side. 
However, my recommendation is that they should explore the options from the perspective of the medical community 
i.e. the doctor himself. If you look at 
India, the market is skewed in terms of demand and supply. The doctor is still holds the key. Therefore whatever makes the doctors life better and make 
his patient interaction accurate and 
faster is what will get accepted fast. So, I think instead of trying to make the applications work from the patient side they should concentrate at the doctor’s 
side and approach the whole thing from 
this angle. This will in turn drive that the patient’s needs are met and then everybody will be happy.
PwC India: Till date, what has Narayana 
Hrudalaya done in terms of adopting these emerging technologies and what are the 
future plans?
Srikanth Raman: If you look at cloud 
what we can tell you is that in all our 23 
locations that we run today there are no physical servers other than the domain servers, everything else is running upon 
a virtualised environment. We have 
found out that its best to outsource the entire piece of IT in terms of bundling the application to a service provider and bundling the infrastructure and 
connectivity to another service provider 
and just trying to manage them on a case to case basis, so we don’t really have to worry about IT infrastructure any more. This has been our model. I think 
this model has made possible for us to 
scale up very quickly and has made us very nimble in the market today. It has also brought a lot of standardisation. Now across all the hospitals you see 
the same language in terms of MIS, 
I could not imagine this happening in a data centre based model where everything is distributed. These are 
two big advantages. There are also 
great advantages that can be achieved in applying these technologies in the clinical area. We have just started on that on that part now. maybe in about one to two years time we should see 
great benefit in the clinical side too. As 
of now most of the benefit have been in the administrative arena and few clinical benefits in simple areas like email for patients, one point registration across 
any of the 23 hospitals which ensures 
that one patient do not have to register second time in any of the hospitals again. These are small advantages already 
been available to the patients, but I 
think in the long run more and more of this doctor-patient interaction delight is going to emerge because of the social, mobility and cloud platform. And I think 
we are in a good state as early adopters 
to reap all those advantages.
42 PwCPwC India:  As the Group CIO what are 
your priorities and what are the challenges that you typically face today?
Ekhlaque Bari: Stabilisation of our 
existing IT set-up is one of my key 
priorities today. Currently, we face 
about two to three disruptions (related to IT) every month that tends to have an impact on our business. I would like to reach a stage where  business will  be 
able to run without any disruption for 
six months plus. Other priorities include reducing business costs and contributing revenue growth.
PwC India:  How do you plan to overcome 
these challenges?
Ekhlaque Bari: We have set targets or 
key result areas (KRAs) for the whole 
team. Currently, the entire team has 
a set of eight KRAs. Four of which are focussed on growing and transforming the business, and they are   revenue, operational excellence, productivity 
and innovation (ROPI). In addition, for 
‘run the business,’  we strive towards compliance and security, availability, responsiveness and efficiency (CARE). Each member in the team owns one or 
multiple targets out of the eight metrics. 
One group in the team is focussed on stability, while the other group focuses on reducing cost and growing revenue.In a conversation 
with PwC India, Ekhlaque Bari, Group CIO at HT Media Limited, discusses the importance of cloud computing and the changing role of a chief information officer	(CIO)	in	the	current business environment.
Interview conducted by 
Vivek KhoslaPwC India: In the future, how will the role 
of a CIO be different from the ones in the past?
Ekhlaque Bari: Traditionally, the CIO 
and his or her team spent a huge portion 
of their time in negotiating, architecting 
compute, data centre and managing resources. This portion will diminish as compute and storage will become a black box and services will be SLA-
driven on the cloud. This model will 
lead to the workforce focussing on the business side (that is, reducing cost, and growing revenue). The emergence of the 
cloud, will lead to the creation of strong 
governance and a security team. Another thing that CIOs have to deal with is the support of myriad devices. They will need to bring in more collaboration, and 
intranet sites will need to have same look 
and feel as Facebook and Twitter. With the SaaS model, businesses can subscribe services without the involvement of IT, and hence budgets which were earlier 
allocated for IT, will now move to the 
business, with the advent of the cloud.
CIOs will need to be more business savvy 
and more  people within the business will start taking up the role of the CIO. Also, the overall need for technology know-how will decrease.

Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    43PwC India: How is cloud computing 
influencing your strategies?
Ekhlaque Bari: Cloud is in the centre of 
everything we are doing today. I believe in the simple rule of following a cloud 
first policy. With the advent of cloud 
computing the any compute requirement can be provisioned from the cloud either through a SaaS or public PaaS or public IaaS or ultimately the private IaaS 
model. Also, cloud is impacting TCO for 
data centres,  skill sets of people and is changing the kind of processes they are engaged in.
PwC India: How is cloud changing your 
conversation with your chief executive 
officer (CEO) and the chief finance officer 
(CFO)? Do you think a CEO or CFO should care about cloud computing? 
Ekhlaque Bari: For a CFO, only two 
things matter, how much cost can be reduced and how much value are you adding. They do not care about the 
service models being deployed. In most 
enterprises, the running cost and TCO on cloud is lower than maintaining traditional data centres. This would interest a CFO and the same is the case 
with HT Media. With the change in 
funding model from capital expenditure (CAPEX)  to operating expenditure (OPEX)  I can now rent an infrastructure for 2 lakh INR  for conducting an  
experiment, whereas earlier  it  used to 
cost me  approximately 2 crore INR. This is what I highlight when I talk to my CEO and CFO.
PwC India: What are the key business 
drivers for investing in cloud computing? What business value you believe can be 
derived from cloud computing?
Ekhlaque Bari: The key drivers for 
cloud computing which in turn can 
result in significant business benefits include reduction in TCO, shift from a CAPEX to an OPEX model of funding, enhanced agility resulting in quicker 
time to market, revenue enablement and 
reduced cost of experimentation thus fostering innovation.
PwC India: How does cloud computing 
help with innovation within an enterprise?
Ekhlaque Bari: I pride myself by saying 
that technology is not about possibilities, it is about economics. Today with a clap 
of a hand, a newspaper can be printed.  
Although that is  technically possible, it is not economically feasible as it might cost billions of dollars. Therefore, by reducing the cost of failure, and fostering the ability to face such failures, helps the innovation process in a huge way, and towards this, cloud helps define new business models.
PwC India:  What are your final 
observations on cloud computing? 
Ekhlaque Bari:  Cloud will change the entire landscape of the IT industry 
as well as the IT ecosystem. Business 
to business (B2B) transactions will transform into a B2C transactions, where C will stands for cloud providers.  Due to cloud computing, the role of the CIO will 
also undergo a transformation.
44 PwCPwC India:  In your observation, what are 
the key trends in enterprise IT which will define the future landscape? 
Vineet Anand : In my view, enterprise 
IT is in for a big change in all spheres, 
from a business, technology as well as an  
operational perspective.  From a business perspective, new models will evolve because of the prevailing social, mobile, analytics and cloud (SMAC) trends. 
For example, businesses’ that earlier 
needed a higher degree of compute power upfront cost was a huge entry barrier. Now, with cloud compute power 
that barrier is non-existent or lowered 
to a large extent. Hence, established businesses may find new innovative entrants who are going to challenge the existing traditional norms. New 
models of executing tasks might be seen 
across various businesses, for example, technical schools or colleges need not have an in-house computer lab, but can have access to the best of the tools as 
well as the computer lab on the cloud. 
From a technological point of view, I feel, more of open-source and large scale platforms will evolve that will enable us to use internet more as a compute and 
a store service, and not just something 
that allow us to connect. From an operational perspective, IT operational practices might see a huge shift towards 
automation, since now with cloud, all 
tools and services are easily available and configurable as compared to few years back.
In nutshell, what it means is that SMAC 
will gradually, but will certainly change the way we think about doing tasks and 
executing them.In a conversation 
with PwC India, Vineet Anand, Senior Vice President, Information Technology at Macmillan Publishers India Limited, discusses various aspects of Macmillan’s journey to the cloud
Interview conducted  
by Kumar KV
PwC India: What is the significance 
of cloud computing in the current IT landscape?  Do you think IT infrastructure 
is now transforming itself into a 
commodity?
Vineet Anand: Any trend  that simplifies 
the way  we do business, either at a lower or a comparable cost is bound to receive due importance. Cloud computing falls within this category. It simplifies the 
IT infrastructure, cuts down complex 
processes, and its cost at the same time provides the necessary business agility.  
To a certain extent, IT infrastructure is 
now becoming a commodity, but I do believe it will take some time before it 
will truly be commoditised. 
PwC India: What role does cloud 
computing play within your enterprise?
 Vineet Anand: At Macmillan 
Publishers India Ltd. we have moved 
almost everything on the cloud. One hundred per cent of our production services are cloud-based solutions or services, including enterprise resource 
planning (erp), customer relationship 
management (crm), interactive voice response (ivr), web platform, email, etc.
PwC India: Macmillan Publishers 
India has migrated its entire SAP and BI production environment on to AWS cloud. What were the key drivers behind this 
decision?
 Vineet Anand: For a small and medium 
business (SMB) company it is hard to 
employ dedicated expert resources necessary to support business critical IT infrastructure. Now, with fully-supported infrastructure services and 
the DevOps model (tools for automation 
of infrastructure operations) from the 
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    45cloud provider, it is easy to manage 
high level of service and with minimal number of staff members. From a cost 
perspective, our current infrastructure 
was obsolete and needed a high degree of investment. So instead of  choosing to deploy CAPEX on our IT infrastructure, we opted to use it to drive business 
value generation projects, and deployed 
our infrastructure on the cloud service provider, which was calculated to be much cheaper if we compare it with a 
similar level of service and durability. 
Also, at the time of considering this infrastructure investment, our business was unsure about the scale and size of the computer  platform required for 
future endeavours. Hence, flexibility 
and spending money only on the things that we use was another important factor while considering a cloud-based solution. Presently, IT services are  
deeply embedded into the  business 
activities of a company, to an extent that any outage of IT services directly affects  the company’s  ability to perform and deliver services to its customers.  
Hence, mitigating risk and providing 
high level of assurance was a  key factor while  choosing between cloud vs an in-house system.
PwC India: What were the lessons learnt 
during this exercise?
Vineet Anand: Key elements of this 
exercise are similar to any large IT 
Infrastructure projects. I would say that 
it is important to engage with a partner who can support the organisation through the entire cycle that is right from architecture building to proof-
of-concept, deployment, testing and migration. Also, we have learnt that 
checking all the regulatory, software licences and other compliance issues 
is crucial. It is important to assess the 
impact of any negative user experience (due to latency or any other technical issues) by engaging the end-users during the testing process and appropriately 
addressing the same.
PwC India: What key parameters did 
you consider before taking this decision? 
How did you convince your CEO and CFO about cloud computing as a viable business proposition?
 Vineet Anand: A business case was built 
around so as to provide a simplified, 
long-term sustainable and measurable 
IT infrastructure model along with substantial return on investment  (ROI) saving. As mentioned earlier, key drivers for cloud adoption were 
sustainable solution, cost, agility and 
business risk mitigation.
PwC India: Security has become a key 
concern in adopting cloud solutions. From your experience, what have you learned with respect to addressing security issues in the cloud?
 Vineet Anand: I think a general 
statement that security is a concern 
within cloud is not appropriate.  For 
example, a SMB company with extensive internet exposure might be able to lower its risk profile vis-a-vis  if they would have attempted to do on their own, 
without adding substantial cost. 
At the same time, for a large company 
with operations across multiple geographies that needs to meet various compliance and regulatory obligations 
and ensure personal identifiable data (PIF) and intellectual property (IR) is always protected might face certain jurisdictional challenges.  
Handling security is a two-paragoned 
approach, for which one needs tools 
and efficient practices (operating, 
monitoring, collating and analysing practises) in place.  This is valid for  both in-house as well as cloud-based 
security, hence there is no additional  
risk on the cloud.
Lastly, it is important to review the cloud 
agreements and ensure that all security elements that matters to an organisation most are being considered and managed by the provider.
PwC India: Do you think private cloud is 
more secure than public cloud?
 Vineet Anand: Depends what you 
want to do with it. Each one has its own 
place. It all depends on the company’s 
risk profile and appetite, along with its business and IT architecture.
PwC India: What are your future plans on 
cloud adoption?
 Vineet Anand: Within the Indian 
business context we are 100% on cloud.
PwC India: Is cloud the future of ERP?Vineet Anand: Yes, I believe that ERP 
on cloud is going to be the future. In my opinion, it will be more of an industry-based SAAS model models such as ERP for logistics, ERP for airlines or ERP for 
publishers, etc.
46 PwCAbout the Confederation 
of Indian Industry
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an 
environment conducive to the development of India, partnering industry, Government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry led and industry managed 
organization, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association has over 7100 member organizations, from the private as well as public sectors, including SMEs and 
MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 companies from around 257 
national and regional sectoral associations.
CII charts change by working closely with Government on policy issues, 
interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialised services 
and global linkages. It also provides a platform for consensus-building and 
networking on diverse issues. 
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify and 
execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with over 120 NGOs 
across the country carry forward our initiatives for integrated and inclusive 
development, in affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through 
Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII 
advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus on accountability, transparency and measurement in both the corporate and social eco-system, building a 
knowledge economy, and broad-basing development to help deliver the fruits 
of progress to many. 
With 63 offices including 10 Centres of Excellence in India, and 7 overseas 
offices in Australia, China, France, Singapore, South Africa, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 
countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the 
international business community.Contacts
For further details, contact:
Arunima Sharma,  
Director, Confederation of Indian IndustryIndia Habitat Centre, Core 4A, 4th Floor,Institutional Area, Lodi Road,
New Delhi - 110 003 (India)
T: +91 (11) 41504514-19 • F: +91 (11) 24682228Email: Arunima.sharma@cii.in,  
info@cii.in 
Web: www.cii.in
Membership Helpline: 00-91-11-435 
46244 / 00-91-99104 46244
CII Helpline Toll free No: 1800-103-1244www.cii.in
Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    47About PwC 
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. 
We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us 
what matters to you and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi 
NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, each of 
which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcContacts
To have a deeper discussion around 
emerging technologies and innovation’ and how it can benefit your enterprise, 
please contact:
Debdas Sen
Executive Director/Partner
Regional Managing Partner (East) and Technology Consulting Leader 
Email: debdas.sen@in.pwc.com 
Sandeep Ladda
Executive Director/Partner 
Technology Sector Leader Email: sandeep.ladda@in.pwc.com 
Arnab Basu
Executive Director/Partner Emerging Technologies LeaderEmail: arnab.basu@in.pwc.com
Rajesh Rajan  
Associate DirectorEmerging Technologies 
Email: rajesh.rajan@in.pwc.comwww.pwc.in
Data Classification: DCO
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility 
or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 130 - Dec 2013 Running IT as a Business.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
