Title: pwc_before-tomorrow-dawns
Date Published: 2013-12-13 10:49:12+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_before-tomorrow-dawns.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Before tomorrow dawns
Key findings from the State of 
Information Security Survey-India
www.pwc.in
India Information Security Survey 2014 at a glance
The heart of the matter  P4/ Methodology  P5/An in-depth discussion  P6/  
Insights from industries  P18/What this means for your business  P20

Foreword
It is heartening to note that information security is finding its way to the Board agenda. An increasing number of 
organisations in India are moving beyond information security basics and exploring new paradigms and models of 
information security to meet the evolving threat land-scape.
The litmus test for a truly exceptional strategy is to make organisations responsive to the needs of today and 
become better prepared for the challenges of tomorrow. So is the case with  information security strategy wherein 
both knowledge and agility are key. In this report, we study the current status of information security in Indian 
organisations. We analyse information security behaviours, security priorities, security spending, safeguards and 
security policies implemented by companies to secure their information assets. We also  
assess and expound on the preparation that organisations in India need have in order to become information 
security leaders.
As always, while information security has its roots in technology, the key drivers of any security culture continue to 
be the people. This survey explores the key issues and challenges with regards to this critical aspect of information 
security culture.
we are sure this report will play an important role in helping enterprises strengthen their information  
security posture. We look forward to your feedback to make our future surveys even more comprehensive  
and interesting. 
Information security threats 
are complicated, complex and 
damaging. Organizations 
need to prepare by 
continuously assessing and 
evaluating security strategies 
and practices.Sivarama Krishnan  
Executive Director  
PwC IndiaSiddharth Vishwanath  
Executive Director  
PwC India

Executive summary 
• Confidence is high but true leaders in security are few: While 89% of respondents repose confidence in the 
effectiveness of their information security activities and 57% consider themselves ‘front-runners’ in strategy and 
security practices, our analysis reveals that only 38% organisations are real information security leaders.
• Security loopholes result in failures: The number of security related incidents detected in the past 12 months 
has increased by 98%, an indication of the elevated threat environment today. It is troubling that over one-
third of the respondents claim to have learnt of these from external sources, such as customers or service 
providers. This may be due to continued investment of organisations in traditional information security 
products or safeguards rather than on new ones. 
• Spending may not be in right direction: Over 90% respondents claim that their security policies and security 
spending are aligned with business objectives, with 25% reporting security budgets of more than five million 
USD. There is a sharp increase in the number of security incidents and resultant financial losses are on the 
rise. This contradicts the belief that organisations are becoming more adept at detecting intrusions. It, in 
fact, suggests that the security models in use may either be broken or ineffective.
• New technologies are implemented without security: Enterprise mobility and cloud services are gaining 
greater traction within organisations in India. Information security for mobile devices and cloud services, 
however, lags behind adoption rates. Less than 50% of respondents claim fundamental information security 
controls for mobile security and even less than 20% have policies addressing the use of mobile phones. 
• Information security lacks management support: Nearly 30% of respondents report that leadership and 
strategy are the two most common obstacles in effecting a strong information security function within their 
organisations. Thus, information security in many organisations is still not a foundational component of the 
business strategy, one that is championed by senior management, the CEO and the Board.
• Lack of focus on the ‘real’ intruders: Insider threats are rising. Insiders, particularly current or former 
employees, are cited as security threats by almost 75% of respondents. Lack of solutions around behavioural 
profiling and event management adds to the problem. Many organisations do not yet have plans for 
responding to insider threats. The information security spending is still more focussed on external factors, 
such as client and regulatory requirements.  
4       PwCThe heart of 
the matter
Indian businesses are confident about their 
security posture, but are ill-prepared for the 
future. While traditional concepts of security 
help establish rudimentary foundations, 
everchanging threats necessitate that 
businesses look beyond.
Indian companies have been focussing on 
compliance based and perimeter oriented 
security strategies. While they have proved 
to be useful in the past, these strategies alone 
will not be able to meet challenges posed 
by adversaries leveraging the threats and 
technologies of tomorrow. 
The intruders have become more sophisticated: 
by moving on from dated perimeter attackes 
to ones which are highly targeted and difficult 
to pre-empt. Interestingly, the attack surface 
(partners, suppliers, customers and others) 
has expanded with the ease of staying 
connected. Adversaries are breaching the 
defences of business ecosystems and are 
leaving reputational, financial and competitive 
damages in their wake.
Respondents to The State of Information 
Security® Survey – India, 2014 appear to be 
distant from ground reality. More than 620 
executives across 17 industries who responded 
to the survey, were confident about their 
organisation’s information security practices, 
some even believing that they’re leading. More 
than half (57%) of the respondents see their 
organisation as a ‘front-runner’. 
While organisations have raised the bar in 
security, their adversaries have made sure they 
are a step ahead. This year’s survey shows that 
there is a 98% jump in the number of incidents 
reported this year and average financial losses 
have gone up by 26% in India compared to the 
global average of 18%. A majority of organisations are clearly 
underprepared to deal with the vulnerabilities 
and threats around new technologies and 
business models. Security, which needs to be a 
foundational component of business strategy, 
particularly in an elevated threat environment, 
still goes begging for top management’s 
sponsorship in most organisations.
It is clear that organisations have not been able to 
keep pace with today’s escalating risks and there 
is a long way to go before they are able to manage 
impending threats. 

Before tomorrow dawns        5Methodology
The survey was conducted using a structured 
questionnaire, administered online. PwC 
clients from across the country were invited 
via email to take the survey. This survey was 
conducted parallely with PwC’s global survey 
titled The Global State of the Information 
Security Survey 2014. The results discussed 
in this report are based on responses from 
more than 620 CEOs, CFOs, CISOs, CIOs, 
CSOs, vice presidents, and directors of IT  
and information security across 17 
industries. The margin of error is less than 
1%. All figures and graphics in this report 
were sourced from survey results.
The State of Information Security Survey 2014, 
India is in its sixth edition. Key attributes of the 
survey are:
Respondents have been clubbed into four  
major industry verticals: CIPS (consumer, 
industrial products and services), TICE 
(technology,  information, communications  
and entertainment), FS (financial services),  
the government and others.
• Maximum responses have been received 
from CIPS (29% respondents) followed  
by the TICE (22%) group.
• Majority of the respondents (75%) are 
from medium and large enterprises.
• Around 80% respondents represent senior 
management from business and IT.
Respondents: Industry wise
29%
22% 14%10%15%10%
CIPS
TICE
FS
Manufacturing
Others
Govt.Respondents: Title wise
26%
27%6%21%20%
CEO, CFO, COO
CISO, CSO, CIO, CTO
Compliance, Risk, Privacy
IT & Security (Mgmt)
IT & Security (Other)
2%
17%
27%48%6%
Non-profit/Gov/Edu
Small (<$100M)
Medium ($100M-$1Bn)
Large(>$1Bn)
Do not KnowRespondents: Size of company wise

6       PwCAn in-depth 
discussion
Indian executives rate the effectiveness of 
their information security strategies very 
highly. But, closer scrutiny reveals that they 
lack preparedness in meeting impending 
security threats
Confidence is high but true  
leaders in security are few
While 89% of respondents repose confidence in 
the effectiveness of their information security 
activities and 57% consider themselves ‘front-
runners’ , our analysis reveals that only 38% 
of the organisations can be called information 
security leaders.
The State of Information Security Survey- 
India, 2014 reveals that the overall confidence 
in information security practices in India 
has jumped from the previous year with 
more than 89% respondents claiming to be 
confident about their organisation’s security. 
This is striking considering the climate of 
escalating and evolving risks. A similar trend 
has been observed globally with nearly 74% 
respondents claiming to be confident of their 
security practices, a significant increase from 
the previous year. Interestingly, among the 
executives, both business (CEOs) and security 
leaders (CISOs), repose high confidence in their 
organisations’ security practices. 
Confidence in organisations’ security 
41% 41%
10%
2%6%52%
37%
7%
2%2%
Very confident Somewhat
confident Not veryconfident Not at allconfidentDo not knowIndia 2012
India 2013
 Confidence in the information security practices 
is also palpable with more and more executives 
claiming that their information security program 
is aligned with business objectives both in terms 
of policies and spending. 94% respondents this 
year compared to 87% respondents last year 
claim that they have either fully or partially 
completed the alignment of security policies 
with the business objectives. Similarly, 91% 
compared to 86%  respondents from the previous 
year claim that their security spending is aligned 
with business objectives. This indicates that the 
respondents clearly understand that security 
is integral to the business agenda and can add 
immense value to business goals.   
This positivity around security posture also 
gets reflected in the way respondents assess 
their approach to information security. It is 
encouraging to note that a large number of 
executives claim that their organisations have 
crossed the chasm between having an effective 
information security strategy in place and 
proactively executing the strategy. This year’s 
respondents that say they have the attributes of a 
‘front-runner’, have risen 25% from the previous 
year. About one in three (28%) say they have 
the strategy right but may not have been able 
to successfully execute the plan. These we call 
the ‘strategists’. Those who consider themselves 
better at ‘getting things done’ than defining 
an effective strategy are the ‘Tacticians’ which 
account for 9% of the respondents. And the group 
that can be aptly described as ‘firefighters’, the 
ones who do not have a strategy in place and are 
typically in a reactive mode, constitute 6% of  
the respondents. 
Before tomorrow dawns        7How respondents characterize their approach to 
information security 
Strategists
We are better at “getting the strategy right” than we are at executing the plan
TacticiansWe are better at “getting things done” than we are at defining an effective strategy
FirefightersWe do not have an effective strategy in place and are typically in a reactive modeFront-runnersWe have an effective strategy in place and are proactive in executing the plan57%
28%
9%
6%
A closer look at the data through the lens of a 
series of requirements that define ‘true leaders’ on 
the basis of reported capabilities rather than self 
perception reveals that there are far fewer real 
leaders than ‘front-runners’. To qualify as leaders, 
the respondents must:
• Have an overall information security strategy
• Employ a chief information security officer 
(CISO) or an  equivalent who reports to top 
leadership: the CEO, CFO, COO, CRO, or the 
legal counsel
• Have measured and reviewed the effectiveness 
of their security measures within the past year• Understand exactly what type of security 
events have occurred in the past year
Based on these requirements, we understand 
that those who claim to be ‘front-runners’ are 
not necessarily leaders. Filtering on the basis of 
this criteria, only 38% of all survey respondents 
rank as security leaders. This compares favorably 
with 17% of the respondents globally. Compared 
with the front-runners, these leaders have a 
significantly better understanding and control 
over information security risks. They detect more 
security problems; have a better understanding of 
what types of security issues occur and the source 
of those issues and report lower average financial 
losses as a result of security incidents.
Front-runners vs. leaders
57%
38%50%
17%
Front-runners LeadersIndia 2013
Global 2013

8       PwCSecurity loopholes result in failure
We define a security incident as any adverse incident that 
threatens some aspect of computer security. The number 
of incidents detected in the past 12 months has increased 
by 98%, which is perhaps an indication of today’s elevated 
threat environment. It is troubling that over one-third of the 
respondents claim to have learnt of the security problems 
from external sources, such as customers or service 
providers. This may be due to the organisation’s continued 
investments in the traditional information security products 
or safeguards rather than focusing on new ones. 
This year’s survey results reveal that there is 98% rise in  
the number of security issues reported by the respondents 
for the past 12 months. This is significantly higher than the  
25% jump reported globally in the number of security 
incidents for the same period.
This increase could also imply that organisations are 
getting better at identifying incidents. But the fact that 
one-third of the respondents claim that they have learnt of 
incidences from external sources, such as customers and 
service providers, raises questions on the effectiveness of 
internal intrusion detection platforms and processes with 
the organisations. This implies that companies need to 
deploy more robust internal system led controls for an early 
detection of such incidents.
Average number of security incidents
2012 2012 2013 2013
India Global India Global260529895146
3741
 Sources of information on security incidents
27% 27% 28%30%33%
Security -
monitoring
software Analysis of server or firewall files and logs Data loss 
prevention 
(DLP) 
system Managed service  provider Customer
Reported security incidents involve exploits across all 
platforms. While companies report lesser number of  
exploits in removable storage, social engineering and 
paper based information, it is likely these may be going 
un-reported or un-detected. There is in an increase in the 
number of respondents reporting the incidents involving 
exploits of mobile devices.  
Types of security incidents
32%
28%
23% 23% 24%32% 32%
28% 27%26%
Data exploited Mobile device (e.g.,smart phone, tabletcomputer) exploited  Application exploitedSystem exploitedNetwork exploitedIndia 2012
India 2013

Before tomorrow dawns        9It is interesting to note that a majority of respondents report 
that compromising data involving employee and customer 
records is significant when compared to the company IP 
theft.  Every year, respondents claim that the employee and 
customer data is the most valuable information for them. 
With the increasing number of breaches however, it appears 
that these are not as integral to their information security 
plans as they claim them to be. This suggests that the current 
data protection efforts are not focused in the right direction.
Data loss on account of security incidents
 
29%
22% 14%10%15%10%CIPS
TICE
FS
Manufacturing
Others
Govt.
The business impact of such security incidents is manifold. 
Most respondents believe that the impact of these incidents 
extends beyond financial and reputational losses and more 
often than not results in the loss of customers. 
Business impact of security incidents
31%
27%
25%23%
19% 18%
Financial 
lossesBrand/reputationcompromised Theft of “soft”intellectual property (e.g., information such as processes,institutional knowledge,etc.)    Loss of customersLoss of shareholder valueTheft of “hard”intellectual property (information such strategic businessplans, deal documents,sensitive financial documents, etc.)

10       PwCSpending may not be in right direction
Over 90% of the respondents claim that their security 
policies and their security spending are aligned with 
the business objectives. 25% of the respondents report 
security budgets of more than of five million USD. There 
is a sharp increase in the number of security incidents 
and the resultant financial losses are also on the rise. This 
contradicts the belief that organisations are becoming  
more adept at detecting intrusions. It in fact suggests  
that the old security models that are still in use may be 
broken or ineffective. The substantial increase in security spending argues well 
for the security efforts. Irrespective of the company size, 
industry and risk profile there is an overall increase in 
investments for security. Interestingly, there has been a 
100% increase in the number of respondents reporting  
security spending of more than five million USD. This  
is particularly significant as the number of large and  
medium enterprises surveyed is not very different from  
the previous year, which means that more organisations  
are making greater capital and operational expenditure  
for security. 
Total information security budget, 2013
53%
35%
12%41%
34%
25%35%44%
20%
Low (< USD 100,000) Medium (USD 100,000 
to USD 5 million) High (>USD 5 million)India 2012
India 2013
Global 2013
Organisations are optimistic about to the future. In spite of 
a difficult economic environment, 73% of the respondents 
expect their information security spending to increase over 
the next 12 months.  However, 19% still expect it to remain 
the same. Only 5% of respondents from India indicate a cut 
down  in information security spending.
Security spending over the next 12 months
75%
14%
3%8%73%
19%
5%3%49%
25%
11%15%
Increase Stay the Same Decrease Don't KnowIndia 2012
India 2013
Global 2013
Before tomorrow dawns        11While most respondents claim high spends on securing 
information security assets, a significant gap appears in 
the investments made and the outcomes achieved. There 
is a whopping 26% jump in the average losses on account 
of security incidents in India in the past 12 months. This is 
significantly higher than 18% increase in losses reported 
globally for the same time period. This is indicative of 
priorities gone wrong or adversaries getting smarter to  
break into traditional defenses. 
Financial losses of 50,000 USD or more
16%
11%
6%6%19%
9%9%9%
$50,000 to $99,999 $100,000 to $499,999 $500,000 to $999,999 >$ 1 Mn2012
2013
Interestingly, over-reliance on professional judgment 
rather than hard facts to arrive at a focussed plan based 
on measurement of effectiveness of information security 
spending may be clouding or directing spends into less 
beneficial avenues. Very few respondents claim to use 
scientific and or objective measures to arrive at  
spending plans.
Factors for measuring effectiveness of security spending
0%10%20%30%40%50%Professional judgment
Return on investment (ROI)
Total cost of ownership
Reduced security
incidents/breaches 
Improvement againstsecurity metrics 
Payback periodNet present valueInternal rate of returnLack of regulatory findings Lack of audit findings
India 2013
12       PwCNew technologies implemented  
without security
Enterprise mobility and cloud services are gaining greater 
traction with organisations in India. Yet, information 
security for mobile devices and cloud services lags behind 
adoption rates. Less than 50% of the respondents claim that 
their organisations have fundamental information security 
controls for mobile security and even less than 20% have 
policies addressing use of mobile phones. 
A key risk to data security is the surge in the use of mobile 
devices such as smartphones and tablets, as well as the ‘bring 
your own device’ (BYOD) trend. India ranks fifth among the 
top countries for smartphone users with an estimated 67 million subscribers in 2013, after China, the US, Japan and 
Brazil. With the increasing penetration of smartphones in 
the country, there has been a significant rise in the adoption 
of enterprise mobility. This growth trend in BYOD adoption 
is expected to become stronger in the coming years. It is 
reported that adoption of BYOD is deepest in India, where 
over 38% of workers in 2013 are using personal devices up 
from 34% in 2011. 
It is clear that are lagging of security practices is  
covering enterprise mobility adoption in the country.  
Only 53% respondents claim to have a mobile security 
strategy and less than half the respondents report  
having mobile device management (MDM) software  
and authentication of devices.
 Initiatives to address mobile security risks
 
50%
44%
36%45%
41%53%49%
34%43% 42% 42%39%
30%37%35%
Mobile security strategy Mobile device-
management softwareBan of user-owneddevices in the workplace/network access   Protection of corporatee-mail and calendaringon employee-and user-owned devices  Strong authenticationon devices India 2012
India 2013
Global 2013
While the use of mobile devices to share and transmit data 
continues to increase, deployment of information security 
controls lags behind the growing  usage of smartphones 
and tablets.  For customers facing mobility applications, 
respondents report having secured mobile application 
development and advanced authentication related controls. However, few respondents have used penetration testing 
and dedicated intrusion and prevention technologies. 
This signifies that externally exposed applications could 
be vulnerable to threats not contemplated as part of the 
security strategy.
 
 Security controls for customer facing mobility applications
19%25%26%29%32%34%36%37%42%47%
Isolation of memory in the mobile appDedicated intrusion and prevention technologiesMemory is securely cleared when app is closedPenetration testingEncryption of sensitive data in the mobile appA unique set of network and firewall policiesBasic authenticationTransport encryptionStrong authenticationSecure mobile app development
Before tomorrow dawns        13Cloud services adoption in India is on the rise. There has 
been a 57% rise in the number of respondents reporting  
to have used cloud services in their organisation. 
Organisations in India are ahead of their global peers  
in the use of cloud services. Seventy-three per cent 
respondents using cloud services have access to SaaS 
(Software as a Service) platform. 
Use of cloud service and  type of cloud services
45%70%
47%
Use cloud servicesIndia 2012
India 2013
Global 2013
53%73%
31%
2%
IndiaInfrastructure-as-a service(IaaS)
Software -as-a service(SaaS)
Platform-as-a service(PaaS)
Other
Respondents believe that inability to enforce security 
policies at the provider’s end is the single biggest challenge 
for cloud security. They also make indirect reference to the 
lack of training and auditing as a risk for cloud security. 
Greatest risks to cloud security
34%
28%
15%
11%
3% 3%
Uncertain
ability toenforce securitypolicies at a provider site    Inadequate training and ITauditing Questionableprivilegedaccess controlat provider siteUncertainability torecover dataUncertain continuedexistence ofprovider  Uncertain providerregulatory  compliance
14       PwCAlarmingly, despite the awareness around security threats 
to mobility and cloud technologies only a small percentage 
of organisations have incorporated these in their security 
policies. This is also telling of the fact that while only 
14% organisations in India have policies governing cloud 
services, nearly double the number expect to be able to 
enforce policies at partner end to mitigate risks, losing 
sight of the adage that ‘service starts at one’s own doorstep’. 
Globally again only 18% of organisations have covered cloud 
security as part of their information security policies.
Inclusions in security policy
21% 20%19%
14%
Use of 
mobile devices Use of socialnetworking media Use of consumerdevices on the enterprise networkUse of consumer cloud services

Before tomorrow dawns        15Information security lacks management 
support 
Nearly 30% of respondents report that leadership 
and strategy are the two most common obstacles in 
establishing a strong information security function 
within their organisations. Thus, information security in 
many organisations is still not a foundational component 
of the business strategy, one that is initiated by senior 
management, the CEO and the board. 
While most security stakeholders agree that action needs 
to be taken to improve information security, there appears 
to be little consensus about the challenges of doing so. 
Nevertheless, the most significant challenges to improving 
information security are centred around the lack of adequate 
leadership focus, well-designed information security 
strategy and an actionable vision of how future business 
needs impact information security. As stated earlier, the 
litmus test for an effective strategy is to be able to cater to 
the needs of the future while addressing the requirements of today. Currently, information security strategies if any, are 
focussed on countering today’s threats and that too through 
traditional practices of ring-fencing. 
Organisations in India do not report being challenged 
with funding, both capital expenditure and operating 
expenditure, for information security. Globally, 
organisations cite this as one of the major hindrances to 
information security effectiveness.
Nearly 82% of the respondents in India claimed that 
their organisations had a senior executive in a CEO, CFO, 
COO, etc. who proactively communicated the importance 
of information security to the entire organisation. This 
is indicative of the fact that while there is significant 
understanding of the issues around information security by 
the top management, there are concerns in terms of senior 
leadership backing the implementation of information 
security plans.
Obstacles to improving information security
31%
27% 27%
20%
13%20%
12%
Leadership Lack of an effective 
information security strategy  Lack of an actionable vision or understandingof how future business needs impact information security    Insufficient capitalexpenditures  Insufficient operatingexpenditures Absence or shortage of in house technicalexpertise Poorly integratedor overly complexinformation and IT systems
16       PwCLack of focus on the ‘real’ intruders: Insider 
threats are on the increase
Insiders, particularly current or former employees, are 
cited as a source of security incidents by almost 75% of the 
respondents. Lack of solutions around behavioural profiling 
and event management adds to the problem. Yet, many 
organisations do not have plans for responding to insider 
threats. Even today, justification for information security 
spending is more focussed on external factors, such as client 
and regulatory requirements.Most respondents attribute security incidents to every day 
insiders like current employees (41%) and former employees 
(33%).  Many see these insider threats as far more significant 
than external threats. Of the external threats, while attacks 
backed by nation-states make headlines, organisations are 
more likely to be hit by hackers. Only 4% of respondents 
report security incidents   committed by foreign nation 
states. Hackers at 35% represent a much more likely danger.
Likely internal and external sources of incidents
41%33%24%16%14%16%
Current employeesFormer employeesCurrent serviceproviders
/consultants/contractorsFormer service providers
/consultants/contractors Suppliers/business 
partnersCustomers
35%20%19%18%17%10%10%4%
HackersCompetitorsInformation brokersActivists/activist
organisations/hactivistsOrganized crimeTerroristsForeign entities and
organizationsForeign nation
states
*Respondents could select more than one source of incidents
Before tomorrow dawns        17In order to be responsive to the threats posed by intruders, 
companies in India need to devise strategies and tactics 
keeping in mind the real motivators and the impact  of each 
of these actors.
Motivation, vector and impact of threat actors
Motivators Threat vectors Impact
•	Global competition
•	National security
•	Fraud•	Targeted, long-term  
cyber campaigns with strategic  focus
•	Insider
•	Third-party service providers•	Loss of intellectual property
•	Disruption to critical infrastructure
•	Monetary loss
•	Regulatory
•	Ideological
•	Political
•	Disenfranchised 
•	Malicious havoc•	Opportunistic vulnerabilities 
•	Insider
•	Third-party service providers•	Destabilize, disrupt and destroy cyber assets of financial institutions
•	Regulatory•	Illicit profit
•	Fraud
•	Identify theft•	Individual identity theft
•	Data breaches and intellectual property theft
•	Insider
•	Third-party service providers•	Loss of identity
•	Monetary loss
•	Intellectual property loss
•	Privacy
•	Regulatory 
•	Political cause rather than personal gain
•	Ideological•	Targeted organizations that stand in the way of their cause
•	Insider
•	Third-party service provider•	Disruption of operations
•	Destabilization
•	Embarrassment
•	Public relations
•	RegulatoryNation-states
Cyber criminals
Cyber terrorists/
individual hackers
HacktivistsLines between the threats are blurring
India seems to be losing its focus on real intruders. It is 
lagging in its adoption of certain key safeguards that will 
enable  it to meet the threats of today and tomorrow. Less 
than half the  respondents perform behavioural profiling 
and monitoring, deploy security information and event 
management technologies and have protection/detection 
management solutions for advanced persistent threats 
(APTs). These technologies are focused on real internal and 
external intruders.
India
Centralized user data store 61%
Behavioral profiling and monitoring 48%
Intrusion detection tools 68%
Asset management tools 62%
Use of virtual desktop interface 52%
Security information and event management  
(SIEM) technologies48%
18       PwCInsights from 
industries
FS, CIPS and TICE behaving 
distinctly
FS companies, regular front-
runners in security management 
practices, continue to focus on 
maintaining security leadership
FS companies lead in deployment of security 
tools and integrating security right from the 
project inception stage. This gets reflected 
in the lesser downtime experienced by these 
of financial services respondents 
say complex, rapidly evolving, 
and sophisticated technologies 
such as high-frequency trading 
systems pose a “significant 
challenge” for the future 
success of their organization’s 
information security.71%companies overall. However, FS companies 
need to focus on security strategies for new 
technologies like mobile phones etc. 
Financial services companies are spending 
more on information security than ever before 
and have improved many of their security 
practices. Our research indicates that regulatory 
compliance is still a significant driver of  
security spend in the industry. Yet incidents 
continue to occur as a result of unprecedented 
attacks, ranging from distributed denial of 
service to APTs
A significant number of financial institutions 
are seeking external help for risk assessments. 
Compared to global peers more Indian 
financial services organisations are using 
third party vulnerability assessors to help 
them in identification of gaps and consequent 
strengthening of information security.
 Actions taken to strengthen security in past 12 months
 
76%
51%48%
37%50% 52%
40%37%
Hired or outsourced
to a third-partyvulnerability assessor Voluntarily conductedregular penetrationtestsConducted penetration tests as required by regulators  Identified and trackednew threats and vulnerabilitieson a quarterly basis    India FS 2013
Global FS 2013
Before tomorrow dawns        19CIPS companies are working at 
enhancing their capabilities in 
security strategies and practices
CIPS companies are increasingly adopting security 
best practices. Most continue to make investments 
and establish practices around well defined 
strategies, structures and safe guards. Data privacy 
is an area that on needs enhanced focus.
57% respondents from CIPS companies claim that 
they are either prepared or somewhat prepared 
for data protection in cloud and third party 
environments.  73% respondents claim that they 
either have or are planning to implement a secured 
supply chain solution. 
71% of CIPS respondents have physical access and 
monitoring controls for securing point of sales 
(POS) systems. 
Means to secure POS systems
71%
46%
8%4%
Physical 
access andmonitoringcontrolsEncryption of sensitive cardholderdata at theread head(point-to-pointencryption) Tokenization Other (Pleasespecify)India 2013
 
Interestingly only 1/3rd of CIPS respondents 
have implemented business continuity and 
disaster recovery plans. An equal number confirm 
that information security becomes involved in 
major initiatives at project inception stage. This 
implies immense scope for improvement for these 
companies. 70% are optimistic of increases in 
information security spending in the coming year. 
This forebodes well for the sector.
TICE industries exhibit emerging 
leadership in information security 
management
TICE industries report a strong alignment and 
continuing investments in information security 
areas. TICE industries also lead other sectors in 
establishment of security safeguards, including new technology related safeguards. This is in keeping 
with India’s pre-eminent position as the world’s 
leader in information technology services. 
The primary driver of security spending for TICE 
industries is mitigation of identified weaknesses 
implying higher self direction. TICE industries 
clearly understand that need to stay ahead of 
the curve to maintain their pre-eminence as the 
country’s flagship growth sector.
Primary drivers of spending
Mitigation of identified security weaknesses and incidents (e.g.,malware outbreaks, network or systems intrusion, data loss, etc.)   
Compliance with regulations, laws, and policies
Support for innovation and modernization initiatives such as the smart grid  
Do not know61% 17%11%11%
More Indian TICE companies (72%) have a 
unified control or enterprise risk management 
framework addressing cyber security risks. This 
compares favorably with 55% globally. TICE 
companies in India are proactive in establishing 
and imbibing global practices to counter any 
information security risks. In fact, a large swathe 
of TICE companies report having advanced 
protection against APTs. 
Presence of unified control or enterprise risk  
management framework
72%
22%
6%55%
31%
14%
Yes No Do not knowIndia 2013
Global 2013
20       PwCYesterday’s security defenses are not effective 
against today’s rapidly evolving threats. And 
the risks of tomorrow- uncertain at best and 
perilous at worst – will demand a completely 
new model of information security.
We suggest an evolved approach to what 
security can be, one that is driven by 
knowledge of threats, assets and adversaries. 
One in which security incidents are seen as a 
critical business risk that may not always be 
preventable, but can be managed to acceptable 
levels. We call this model Awareness to Action. 
At its most basic, this approach comprises four 
key precepts:
• Security is a business imperative:  
Effective security requires that you 
understand the exposure and potential 
business impact associated with operating 
in an interconnected global business 
ecosystem. An integrated security strategy 
should be a pivotal part of your business 
model; security is no longer simply an  
IT challenge.
• Security threats are business risks:  
You should view security risks as 
organisational threats. It is critical to 
anticipate these threats, know your 
vulnerabilities,  
and be able to identify and manage the 
associated risks. Ensure that suppliers, 
partners and other third  
parties knowand agree to adhere toyour 
security policies and practices.
• Protect the information that really 
matters:  Effective security requires that 
you understand and adapt to changes in 
the threat environment by identifying  
your most valuable information. Know 
where these “crown jewels” are located 
and who has access to  them at all times, and proficiently allocate 
and prioritise your organisation’s resources 
to protect its most valuable information.
• Gain advantage from Awareness to Action:  
In this new model of information security, 
all activities and investments should be 
driven by the best-available knowledge 
about information assets, ecosystem  
threats and vulnerabilities, and business-
activity monitoring. You should create 
a culture of security that starts with 
commitment of top executives and cascades 
to all employees and third parties. Engage in 
public-private collaboration with others for 
enhanced threat intelligence. 
Security is a board-level business imperative  
Advance your 
security strategy 
and capabilities.  •	An integrated security strategy 
should be a pivotal part of your 
business model; security is no 
longer simply an IT challenge. 
•	You should understand 
the exposure and potential 
business impact associated 
with operating in an 
interconnected global business 
ecosystem.
Board and CEO 
drive security 
governance. •	Security risks are operational 
risks and should be reviewed 
regularly by the board. 
•	Strong support and 
communication from the 
board and CEO can break 
down traditional silos, leading 
to more collaboration and 
partnerships.
Strong 
multi-party 
governance 
group should 
manage security 
risk.•	An executive with direct 
interaction with the CEO, 
General Counsel and Chief Risk 
Officer should lead security 
governance.
•	Security governance group 
should include representatives 
from legal, HR, risk, technology, 
security, communications, and 
the lines of business.
•	The cybersecurity governance 
group should meet regularly 
(monthly or quarterly) to 
discuss the current threat 
landscape, changes within 
the organization that impact 
risk levels, and updates to 
remediation programs and 
initiatives.What this means 
for your business?
Before tomorrow dawns        21Security threats are business risks 
Security 
program is 
threat-driven 
and assumes a 
continuous state 
of compromise.•	Security risks are among the 
top 10 operational risks. 
•	Adopt the philosophy of an 
assumed state of compromise, 
focusing on continuous 
detection and crisis response 
in addition to traditional IT 
security focus of protection and 
mitigation.
•	Security risks include theft of 
intellectual property, attacks on 
brand, and social media.
•	You should anticipate threats, 
know your vulnerabilities, and 
be able to identify and manage 
the associated risks.
•	Focus on your adversaries: 
who might attack the business 
and their motivations.
Ensure 
cooperation 
among third 
parties. •	Proactively make certain that 
suppliers, partners, and other 
third parties know—and agree 
to adhere to—your security 
practices. 
Protect the information that really matters 
Identify your 
most valuable 
information. •	Know where these “crown 
jewels” are located and who 
has access to them. 
•	Allocate and prioritize 
resources to protect your 
valuable information.
Establish and test incident-response plans 
Incident 
response should 
be aligned at all 
levels within the 
organization.•	Incident response should 
integrate technical and 
business responses. 
•	Response is aligned at all 
levels by integrating the 
technical response (led by IT) 
and business response (led by 
business with input from legal, 
communications, the senior 
leadership team, and HR).
Security incident 
response should 
be tested using 
real-world 
scenarios. •	Improve planning and 
preparedness through table-
top simulations of recent 
industry events and likely 
attack scenarios. 
•	Frequently conduct table-top 
simulations.
•	Response to various attack 
scenarios and crisis should be 
pre-scripted in a “play book” 
format.
Gain advantage through Awareness to Action 
Security 
program is 
threat-driven 
and assumes a 
continuous state 
of compromise.•	All activities and investments 
should be driven by the best-
available knowledge about 
information assets, ecosystem 
threats and vulnerabilities, and 
business-activity monitoring.
•	Organizations should create 
a culture of security that 
starts with commitment of top 
executives and cascades to all 
employees.
•	Organizations should engage 
in public-private collaboration 
with others for enhanced threat 
intelligence. 
We can help you understand the implications 
of this new approach to information security 
and apply the concepts to the unique needs of 
your business, your industry and your threat 
environment. Let us show you how to effectively 
combat the security threats of today and plan for 
those of tomorrow.
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 coun -
tries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi 
NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit 
www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity.  
Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
ContactsAbout PwC
Siddharth Vishwanath
Executive Director
siddharth.vishwanath@in.pwc.com
Anirban Sengupta
Associate Director
anirban.sengupta@in.pwc.com
Priti Ray
Associate Director
priti.ray@in.pwc.comSivarama Krishnan
Executive Director
sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com
Sundareshwar Krishnamurthy
Associate Director
sundareshwar.krishnamurthy@in.pwc.com  
Manu Dwivedi
Associate Director
manu.dwivedi@in.pwc.com 

www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates 
contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their 
own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither 
accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or 
decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company 
in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each 
member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 101 - October 2013 Before tomorrow dawns.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
