Title: pwc_smart-governance-and-technology
Date Published: 2013-11-13 21:59:11+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_smart-governance-and-technology.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Smart governance 
and technology
www.pwc.in

PwC2
It gives me immense pleasure to present the first edition of the ‘Smart governance and technology’ 
publication from the desks of our government technology consultants. The government 
technology practice in PwC India constantly strives at creating a unique value proposition 
for the government sector by marrying our technology implementation capabilities with our 
understanding of how governments operate. This publication is our attempt to delineate the 
importance of technology in any and every step taken towards achieving good governance in 
the public sector. I am optimistic that in the coming years, this publication will garner greater 
participation, include more technology disciplines and become a benchmark within the PwC 
network.
Within the technology consulting practice of PwC India, we endeavour to assist local governments
in South Asia to adapt to the ever-changing technology trends, which are revolutionising the
channels through which governments across nations interact with their citizens and businesses.
Our association with the public sector, which had commenced a couple of decades back as
strategy and policy level advisors, has been augmented manifold over the years by our technology
implementation skills. Today, we are trusted advisors to governments at different levels, starting
from the central governments of India, Nepal and Bhutan, the Indian state governments of
West Bengal, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, etc. local governments as
well as bodies such as the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (managing the municipal affairs of a
population exceeding six million) and the Kolkata Urban Services For the Poor (governing all the
non-municipal urban local bodies of the state with assistance from the Department for 
International Development), in implementing and managing complex technology solutions 
for automating core business processes and creating unique values. The expertise in providing 
technology solutions for resolving multifarious government issues, accumulated from this 
longstanding association, has equipped our Technology Centre of Excellence to assist our 
colleagues within the network in executing similar transformational engagements in territories 
such as Jamaica, Sri Lanka, Australia and so on. This publication elucidates our points of view on 
technology-driven government transformation gathered from our experience of partnering with 
the public sector in its transformational journey towards ‘building a smart government’.Debdas Sen  
Partner and 
Technology 
Consulting 
Leader
Arunava Mitra  
Managing 
Consultant and  
Government 
Technology CoE 
LeaderPradip Bhowmick  
Partner and Government 
Technology Leader
Our government technology practice has been working closely with the state and central 
governments of India and those of neighbouring countries over the last decade. We have been 
fortunate in partnering with various state governments in India in pioneering ICT initiatives 
in the country aimed at delivering on ‘the citizen promise’. In countries such as Nepal, Bhutan 
and Sri Lanka, our association with the governments has started with virtually the birth of 
e-governance in the respective nations. Through this publication, we have tried to showcase 
of our experience of working with these government bodies, in a bid to demystify the latest 
technology trends and initiatives being adopted in governments across countries. We have also 
incorporated few perspectives from decision makers among our public sector clients across 
varying geographies to foster a better understanding of the adoption of these trends and the 
values they bring to the table. We sincerely hope that this publication will aid you in conducting 
insightful discussions with your clients.
Smart governance and technology3
Technology  
A key pillar of  
national governance
PwC India has been the implementation 
partner of the Royal Government of Bhutan 
(RGoB) since the last two years, automating 
more than 100 government as well as citizen 
services across eight ministries of the RGoB. 
Phuntsho Tobgay, Director, Department of 
Information Technology and Telecom, RGoB 
shares his perspective on the pivotal role of 
technology in Bhutan’s overall governance, 
with Sayan Basu, senior consultant from PwC 
India’s technology consulting teamPradip Bhowmick  
Partner and Government 
Technology Leader
PwC4
PwC India: Kindly elaborate on the technological initiatives 
that have been undertaken in Bhutan in recent times.
Tobgay: As elaborated in the 10th Five Year Plan of Bhutan, the primary focus 
of the government has been ICT infrastructure development in order to facilitate 
an effective dissemination of G2C services. Among the flagship technology 
initiatives undertaken by the government in the recent past, the establishment 
of the National Fibre Optic Network connecting the 20 Dzonkhags  (districts) of 
the country deserves special mention. Community centres have been established 
in each of the 205 Gewogs  (blocks) for increasing citizen access to such services. 
The National IT Park has been constructed in Thimphu in order to house a 
shared Technology Centre and Data Centre along with a Centre of Incubation for 
nurturing new ideas as well as promoting innovation. 
From a policy perspective, the government has recently completed the formulation 
of the National e-Governance Master Plan and design of the e-Government 
Interoperability standards, and the ICT Management Framework. Four centralised 
data hubs will be created for consolidating nationwide information on citizenship, 
land ownership, businesses and vehicles. The e-Governance council, comprising 
the committee of secretaries and e-Governance review committees, consisting of 
nominated representatives from the Gross National Happiness Commission, the 
Department of Finance, etc. have been set-up in order to monitor and review all 
ongoing ICT initiatives of the country.
In the area of capacity development, the government has already undertaken its 
ambitious ‘Chipen Rigpel’ project which has a set-up of around 168 ICT labs across 
different schools in the country, and has already trained around 5,000 people on 
basic IT enablement curriculums.PwC: Since decades, Bhutan has been the prime advocate of monitoring 
the gross national happiness (GNH) index in the context of good 
governance. What has been the impact of technology in improving the 
GNH index of the country?
Tobgay: Education and health are two overarching pillars which the GNH index of the 
RGoB lay significant emphasis. Consequently, the ICT policies of the government have also 
been aligned along these two verticals. Bhutan has drawn inspiration from ICT practices 
and governance models followed in the Scandinavian countries, which also manifest a high 
national happiness index. The first IT park of the country has been constructed with the target 
of creating 1,000 plus employment opportunities within Bhutan. This park has been erected 
with the holistic objective of creating an ecosystem of entrepreneurship within Bhutan. It is 
steadily becoming a site for garnering new ideas as well as encouraging innovation among 
the youth in the country. Recent statistics reveal that out of the entire population trained in 
IT and IT-enabled services, 60% are retained within the IT industry, while the remaining 40% 
seek employment opportunities in diverse industries such as hospitality, tourism, civil sector, 
etc. This demonstrates the contribution of IT in improving citizen employability and the 
alignment of IT with the GNH principle of increasing citizen satisfaction.
Another important pillar of the GNH index is strengthening community vitality. Community 
centres that have primarily been set-up across the country with the objective of delivering 
government to citizen services to the citizens in an efficient manner, also have in place, 
learning facilities for imparting diverse skills among these citizens. These learning facilities 
provide an interactive platform for a huge population of citizens, and are therefore increasing 
community fraternity. 
Phuntsho Tobgay  
Director, Department of 
Information Technology 
and Telecom, Royal 
Government of Bhutan
Smart governance and technology5
PwC India: Emerging technologies such as cloud 
computing, mobility, software as service, etc. are 
redefining conventional technology channels. What 
is your take on the same, and how is Bhutan poised 
to embrace such technologies in the coming future?
Tobgay: With the completion of the National Data Centre in the 
Thimphu Tech Park, Bhutan will be in a perfect position to explore 
the potential of emerging technologies. Cloud computing is of 
foremost priority in the upcoming ICT plans of the government. 
Erection of a government cloud will undoubtedly help in the 
consolidation of IT assets as well as lowering the total costs of 
ownership.PwC India: What are the roadblocks that 
the government has encountered during the 
implementation of such initiatives? What are the 
corrective measures being adopted in order to 
counter such challenges?
Tobgay: In the context of public service delivery within 
Bhutan, areas such as communication and transport have 
traditionally posed challenges. Bhutan is a country with a 
rugged mountainous terrain and hence, connectivity with 
remote locations has always been difficult. In order to ensure 
proliferation of G2C services across the nation, the government 
has been laying special emphasis on telecommunication 
network infrastructure. The recently undertaken National 
Broadband Master Plan project coupled with the Thimphu Wide 
Area Network implementation has significantly contributed 
towards mitigating the challenges pertaining to connectivity. 
In order to minimise over dependency on commercial telecom 
operators, the government has made direct investments in 
nationalising the Fibre Optic Network.
Another roadblock in the context of successful G2C service 
delivery was the lack of citizen awareness and confidence in 
accessing online G2C services. Towards this, the government 
has undertaken several citizen awareness as well as capacity 
development initiatives which have eventually ensured an 
exponential increase in citizen awareness and acceptance. 
The department of Information Technology and Telecom is 
currently planning to engage with the Bhutan ICT and Training 
Association in an attempt to explore other avenues of increasing 
citizen engagement.
Getting it right at the 
first timeArchitecture in the right direction  
FOSS vs COTS  
QA modelling
Enhancing efficiency 
in operationsDigital secretariat: Strategising adoption
Inclusive growth Harvesting technology for the Indian farmerWe derived following themes as important agendas of 
the e-Governance mission for a smart government. 
PwC6
e-Government: 
Architecture in the 
right direction
Smart governance and technology7Why is architecture important in 
e-Government transformation?
Governments, both state and central, 
seek to support growth and improve 
competitiveness, and strengthen their 
performance within the global economy 
through improved governance, sector 
modernisation, and enhanced regional 
integration. Lack of proper architectures, 
interoperability frameworks and 
e-Government standards may be deterrents 
to achieving harmonised enterprise 
architectures, interoperability frameworks 
and an e-Government standard framework 
across systems as well as services provided 
by ministerial departments and agencies to 
other governmental departments and  
the citizens.
The objective of various governments has 
always been to promote the efficiency, 
quality, and transparency of public 
services through the delivery of regionally 
integrated e-government applications 
that take advantage of economies of scale. 
Only a strong architectural blueprint on an 
industry standard foundation can pave the 
path for the implementation of harmonised 
regional e-Government frameworks and 
applications that are interoperable and 
deployable for users across regions. Such 
applications are expected to produce 
time and cost savings for governments, 
businesses, private citizens as well as ensure 
a greater quality of service provision, 
including increased transparency for users 
and the public in general.
Being the provider for G2C, G2G and 
G2B services, remote infrastructure 
services as well as business process 
outsourcing services, governments have 
been investing on multiple core business 
applications for various services over 
the last couple of years. This leads to 
complex conglomerates of tightly coupled 
disparate applications (interfacing 
through point-to-point communication) 
in heterogeneous platforms which made it 
difficult to manage, integrate, scale-up, and 
interoperate, thereby reducing operational 
efficiency. 
Thus, there is a strong need for a business-
IT alignment through simplified and 
standardised enterprise architecture as well 
as a governance model that will support rapid growth and management of systems, 
add tangible value to processes by which 
the government will operate with lower 
total cost of ownership (TCO) and higher 
return on investment (ROI). 
Governments have adapted the 
e-Government master plans with the 
objective of leveraging the full potential 
of information and communication 
technology (ICT) so as to improve the 
efficiency as well as the capability of 
government processes and services,  
with a specific focus on e-Services that 
will enable increased citizen participation 
and attempt to create an open, transparent 
environment, through the integration of 
different government information systems 
and services. To realise this objective, 
the government enterprise architecture 
is essential in order to deliver a common 
integrated interoperability platform  
or service delivery gateway for  
information exchange. What are the problems if 
e-Government is not architected 
in the right way?
In recent times, enterprise architecture 
programmes have gained much attention 
within the government in particular 
and the public sector in general, as 
the provider of collaborative and 
comprehensive ICT designing, planning 
as well as managing processes for 
e-Government transformations so as to 
enable a sustainable connected whole-of-
government model. 
Enterprise architecture enables the 
translation of the e-Government vision 
as well as strategies into effective 
transformation change at the strategic 
(government-wide) as well as the segment 
level (such as ministries, department, 
agencies) by defining common, consistent 
and cohesive architectures for the whole-
of-government to deliver these e-Services.
Current pain areas How EA helps in delivering value
•	Mostly manual processes with low level of 
service automation
•	This leads to high process turnaround time 
for end-to-end processing of government 
services•	Facilitates the transformation of current 
government processes and services to end-
to-end streamlined automated processes, with 
standardised reusable citizen-centric services, 
thereby reducing process turnaround time
•	Fragmented and redundant ICT systems and 
technologies with ministry, departments and 
agencies MDAs working in silos driving their 
own ICT initiatives
•	This leads to higher complexity, higher TCO, 
and a lack of interoperability•	Consolidates and rationalises a fragmented 
redundant ICT systems, technologies as well 
as data structure for cost reduction, reduced 
complexity and better interoperability of ICT 
systems across MDAs
•	Lack of government-wide consistent 
enterprise IT policies, principles, reference 
models and standards with MDAs adopting 
their own disparate standards•	Recommends and maintains government-wide 
technical standards, architecture principles, 
reference models and templates in order to 
facilitate the design, implementation as well as 
the delivery of ICT capability in a consistent, 
standardised, cost-effective and timely 
manner
•	Limited interconnection and collaboration 
across MDAs so as to share government data 
in real-time mode•	Improves the agility and interoperability with 
real-time information exchange across MDAs, 
with enhanced transparency, better co-
ordination and communication
•	Ad-hoc reactive mode of decision making  
in ICT investments with limited investments 
in ICT•	Provides a basis for planned decision making 
in ICT investments
•	Lack of centralised governance to achieve 
the follo wing:
 -Plan and deliver EA initiatives that leads to 
delay in ICT projects
 -Maintain and sustain EA standards•	Centralised architecture governance model in 
order to ensure better architecture planning, 
decision making and compliance of projects with 
enterprise standards
•	Improved efficiency and turnaround time for ICT 
project roll-out
EA is thus one of the critical success factors for effective e-Government transformation.
PwC8What initiatives are other 
governments undertaking ? 
Across the world there has been a wide 
scale adoption of the Government 
Enterprise Architecture (GEA) and 
appreciations thereof of the values 
delivered. The objective of these initiatives 
has been to design, develop, deploy 
and use the GEA and e-Government 
Interoperability Framework (e-GIF) 
for better strategies, processes, plans, 
structures, technologies and systems 
across the government. The GEA and  
e-GIF will be used to better tailor 
information systems for government 
agencies in order to achieve key objectives 
as well as outcomes, and thereby achieve 
increased interoperability, better asset 
management, reduced risk and lower 
operational cost.
• Governments in North America and 
Europe had already taken the right 
steps in establishing the EA programme 
for eGovernment transformation, 
though they are at various stages of EA 
maturity. 
• In the US, the US Information 
Technology Management Reform Act of 
1996, often referred to as the Clinger-
Cohen Act, made it mandatory for all 
116 US federal departments as well 
as agencies to develop and use EA for 
IT investment planning and decision 
making. Some of the benefits realised 
includes the following:
 -The United States Agency for 
International Development has 
reported cost savings to the tune 
of 12.3 million USD and cost 
avoidance of 9.5 million USD as 
a result of transitioning disparate 
human resource systems to a human 
resource shared services centre, 
using enterprise architecture.  It reported savings to the tune of 
15.7 million USD from moving its 
e-mail service to a cloud-based 
solution (recommended by the EA 
programme).
 -The US Department of Health and 
Human Service has been able to 
reuse 16% of its total governmental 
services.
 -The US Department of Education 
reports that development, 
modernisation, and enhancement 
funding within the IT portfolio 
increased from 10% of the total IT 
spending in fiscal year 2011, to 13% 
of the total IT spending in fiscal 
year 2012, through the use of the 
department’s architecture segment 
modernisation planning process.
 -The US Department of Treasury that 
focussed on reducing duplication 
through its data centre consolidation 
initiative has reported a reduction of 
1,283 in the number of servers, an 
increase from 25 to 36% of operating 
systems that were virtualised, and a 
reduction in the data centre square 
footage of 15,896 between 2010 and 
2011.
• The Australian government has 
established the Australian Government 
Programme with the objective to assist 
in the delivery of a consistent and 
cohesive service to its citizens, and 
support a cost-effective delivery of ICT 
services by the government.
• New Zealand (NZ) is diligently working 
towards a connected government 
through the definition of New Zealand 
Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) 
derived from the US Federal Enterprise 
Architecture Framework (US FEAF).• In recent times, countries in the Asia-
Pacific region are also on the move to 
adopt enterprise architecture in order 
to demonstrate better control as well as 
management of ICT capabilities.
 -The Korea Government Enterprise 
Architecture, winner of the UN 
Public Service Award in 2013 has 
helped the government in the 
projected budget reduction of 400 
billion KRW since the adoption of EA 
over the last five years. 
 -The government of Singapore 
has established the whole-of-
government EA with the objective to 
enable the government optimise its 
ICT assets by rigorously analysing 
as well as identifying strategic 
opportunities from its various lines 
of businesses, business information, 
software applications and 
technology investments.
 -The government of Nepal has 
adopted the GEA framework 
with the objective the realise its 
e-Government mission of providing a 
‘value networking Nepal’ by building 
efficient, transparent as well as a 
citizen-centric government service 
through the use of ICT.
• The Organisation of Eastern Caribbean 
States (with member countries namely 
Dominica, Grenada, Saint Lucia, 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 
Antigua and Barbuda and St Kitts and 
Nevis) have established the enterprise 
architecture framework at the regional 
and the national level with the key 
objective of promoting the efficiency, 
quality, and transparency of public 
services through the delivery of 
regionally-integrated e-Government 
applications that take advantage of 
economies of scale.
(Source: Ministry of Security and Public Administra -
tion)

Smart governance and technology9What is the right way to 
approach the e-Government 
architecture?
TOGAF as the foundation for EA 
Adopting a well-planned collaborative 
and comprehensive national enterprise 
architecture framework is one of the key 
success factor for the transformation 
initiative.The Open Group Architecture Framework 
(TOGAF), an open group standard, is the 
widely accepted architecture framework 
adopted by government as well as 
private sector organisations, in both the 
developed and developing countries 
across the world in recent times, for the 
development of a government national 
(strategic level) and regional (state, 
municipality, departments, agencies) level 
enterprise architecture framework.  
Government strategic 
architecture at national level (architecture vision)
Ministries, department and 
agencies specific architecture (programme / portfolio level)
Ministries, department and 
agencies specific project architecture (incremental and iterative)
The rising popularity of TOGAF as the 
architecture framework can be attributed 
to its core architecture development 
methodology (ADM), a step-by-step 
process oriented approach that will allow 
government architectures to be developed 
at various levels (at the strategic as well 
as segment levels) and across various 
architecture domains (business, data and 
technology) that are consistent, iterative, 
adopt industry best practices and provides 
a common language. 
It has the flexibility to accommodate likely 
future needs of the government in an 
iterative manner.Requirements 
managementPreliminary
Transforming the governmentDesigning the architectureManaging the transformationCreating the architecture vision
B.
Business 
architecture
C.
Information 
systems 
architecture
D.
Technology 
architectureE.
Opportunities 
and solutionsF.
Migration 
planningA. 
Architecture 
vision H.
Architecture 
change 
management
G.
Implementation 
governance
PwC10Architecting e-Government 
transformation 
Creating the architecture vision
The architecture vision articulates the 
translation of the whole-of-government 
transformation vision and objectives in 
order to serve the ICT strategic needs as 
well as the directions of the government. 
It demonstrates a value proposition 
responding to the ICT strategic 
transformation requirements and 
envisaging the future state government 
service delivery architecture.
The industry best practice driven 
guiding architecture principles and 
reference architecture models will serve as the means of demonstrating and 
articulating this vision. 
An essential precursor to the 
conceptualisation of this vision is 
to assess the capability maturity 
of the government architecture 
programme that will enable the 
process of goal setting for the future. 
EA capability maturity will provide a 
yardstick to periodically assess and 
measure improvement as well as 
allow governmental organisations 
to benchmark the status of current 
architecture programmes and 
commence the process of improving 
their effectiveness, or roll-out a new 
programme. Architecture principles
The architecture principles reflect the 
architectural vision to support the business 
needs of the government and improved IT 
enablement. It provides a foundation for 
a consistent industry best practice-based 
architecture, and will guide ICT decisions 
and investments.
Reference architecture model
In most cases, the government ICT 
landscape is largely fragmented in nature, 
distributed with disparate multi-vendor 
solutions across MDAs, each maintaining 
their own architecture standards in silos. 
Adoption of a whole-of-government 
reference architecture model will provide 
a common, standardised and consistent 
taxonomy and framework solution in order 
to enable reuse and interoperability across 
government MDAs. It provides a context for 
decision making and helps MDAs to develop 
ICT capabilities in a way so as to operate 
across traditional boundaries in order 
to improve service delivery and deliver 
responsive ICT solutions. 
The reference architecture model 
will act as the template and reference 
point for concrete realisation of the 
target architecture development and 
implementation either within a particular 
domain (e.g. application, data) or sets 
of domains (e.g. across all architecture 
segments). The technical reference 
architecture provides the foundation that 
will guide the selection of standards as well 
as enabling technologies.Architecture principles
•	Business principles
•	Data principles
•	Application principles
•	Technology principles
•	Architecture governance principlesReference architecture models
•	Enterprise level reference architecture
•	Data reference model
•	Application reference model
•	Technical reference model
Architecture principles Reference architecture models
Creating the 
architecture vision

Smart governance and technology11
Reference architecture models
PwC12Designing the 
architectureBusiness 
architectureInformation 
architectureApplication 
architecture
Technology 
architecture
Interoperability 
frameworkBusiness architecture
•  Service automation
•  Service delivery
•  Service integrationInformation architecture
•  Data classification and taxonomy
•  Data modeling & standards•  Data life cycle management
•  Master data and data quality
management 
•  BI and reporting
•  Document, content and 
knowledgemanagement Application architecture
•  Access and delivery channels
•  Presentation and user experience
•  Business process alignment and suitability
•  Architecture and design
•  Business process management
•  Application quality of service
Technology architecture
•  Service delivery gateway architecture
•  Application, Data & Infrastructure
Security 
•  Network infrastructure•  Data Center Infrastructure
•  ICT BCP / DR planning and
Implementation 
Interoperability framework
•  Interoperability principles 
and policies
•  Technical standards
specifications Designing the architecture
 
Collaborative domain 
architecture formulation
Designing the enterprise architecture 
for the whole-of-government involves 
collaborative development of the 
domain architecture across businesses, information, application and technology 
architecture. The overarching architecture 
vision will provide directions and 
guidelines for subsequent designing of the 
domain architecture .
Smart governance and technology13DataBusiness services
Business processOrganization or 
lines of business
PAN registration 
statusPAN Registration
(G2C)
Application
InfrastructureIRD ePAN , eVAT
applications
Web server
Application and 
portal serverActors
PAN 
applicantMinistry of finance, inland revenue 
department
Tax payer addressIntegration
Tax payer nameIRD staff
Submit PAN 
details (web service)  Submit VAT details 
web service
Government WAN or LAN
Routers, Switch, Firewalls, IPS
Database server
Content serverEmail, Directory 
servers
Mobility serverVAT Registration
(G2B)VAT 
applicant 
National portal or 
ministry portalTax administration process
PAN certificate
Security (application, data, integration and infrastructure)
Interoperability framework (technical)End-to-end collaborative domain architecture building blocks
PwC14Business or services architecture
Business or service architecture will 
capture the integrated whole-of-
government service delivery operating 
model at the strategic level for 
accomplishing the e-Government vision, 
and individual functions, processes and 
government services at the segment level 
required to support the service delivery 
model. 
Information architecture
The information architecture will define 
the integrated whole-of-government 
data standards, the structure of the 
governments’ common logical and physical 
data assets required to support business 
services and address data management 
considerations. It reflects common domain 
entities, their relationships, schemas 
and establishes accountability for data 
integrity. Definition of data architecture 
needs to be incremental in nature in order 
to meet specific segment requirements. 
Application architecture
The application architecture defines the 
blueprint for ICT application or service 
capabilities, their interactions, as well 
as their relationships to core business 
services of the MDAs. 
It consolidates and rationalises the 
application portfolio of the government 
organisation as a whole required to 
support business processes of MDAs. 
The definition of application architecture 
needs to be incremental in order to meet 
specific MDA functional requirements for 
new ICT initiatives.Technology architecture
Technology architecture defines the 
blueprint for underlying ICT technical 
infrastructure capabilities required to 
support ICT application capabilities 
identified in the application architecture. It 
mostly focuses on the blueprint definition 
in the following domains:
• Integration architecture required to 
integrate ICT applications in order to 
enable real-time seamless information 
exchange across MDAs government-
wide leveraging SOA-based approach
• Security architecture required to 
securely and economically protect its 
business functions, including public 
access to appropriate information as 
well as resources, while maintaining 
compliance with the legal requirements 
established by existing statutes 
pertaining to confidentiality, privacy, 
accessibility, availability, and integrity
• Infrastructure architecture required 
to lay down the network, data centre 
and infrastructure (hardware as well as 
software) foundation services for the 
deployment of ICT application solutions 
and provide operational support 
services Interoperability framework 
In order to achieve the goal to primarily 
setup an interoperable connected 
government, it is of utmost importance to 
create an open, transparent, interoperable 
environment in order to help government 
information systems work successfully 
together and in an integrated and 
seamless manner, regardless of underlying 
technology or application. 
A government interoperability framework 
(GIF) is thus essential in order to define 
technical standards that a government 
can use so as to ensure that ministries, 
departments, agencies, citizens and 
partners interact with each other in a 
standardised manner.
Transforming 
the governmentOpportunities and 
solutionsArchitecture 
implementation 
strategy and 
roadmap
Transition 
architectureArchitecture roadmap
•Architecture 
implementation strategy
•Short and long-term roadmap 
•Portfolio & project charter
Transition architecture 
•Capability increments 
through series of 
transition architectureOpportunities and 
solutions
•Strategic opportunities 
and solutions
•Emerging solutions
•Initiative identification 
and prioritisation
•Cost benefit analysis
Smart governance and technology15Transforming the government
Critical to the transformation of the 
government is the adoption of an 
iterative and incremental strategy for 
the implementation of the government 
enterprise architecture. A best practice 
approach is the formulation of the 
architecture implementation roadmap 
that shows incremental progress from 
the baseline to the target through a 
series of transition architectures that 
delivers continuous business value (for 
e.g., capability increments) with the 
exploitation of opportunities.
There is a need to explore rationalisation 
initiatives, recommending improvement 
opportunities as well as solution options 
leveraging best practices, and the use 
of emerging technologies (such as SOA, 
cloud, mobile government and social 
media, unified communications, open 
government and big data) wherever 
applicable in order to improve business 
value and agility. Also, it is crucial to 
prioritise opportunities and identify quick 
wins so as to gain momentum. 
One needs to complete the portfolio 
and major project charters, with 
their deliverables being grouped into 
increments and scheduled for release 
within the transition architecture 
increments. 
Managing the transformation
Enterprise architecture is not a one-time 
activity, but a living and breathing practice 
that needs to be governed and sustained. 
Without proper governance government 
MDAs can be following its own strategy, 
guidelines as well as standards without 
any alignment to the overall e-Government 
transformation vision. 
An architecture governance structural 
model, comprsing of an architecture 
review board and architecture 
management processes, needs to be 
institutionalised in order to review, 
monitor and ensure compliance of 
government MDA ICT projects (existing 
as well as new) with the proposed GEA 
standards and specifications.
The architecture change management 
process is essential to manage changes to 
the proposed architecture in a cohesive 
and architected way, and also ensure that 
it meets the target value as expected. 
This process will typically provide 
for the continual monitoring of new developments in technology and also 
changes within the business environment, 
and for determining whether to formally 
initiate a new architecture evolution cycle. 
The architecture review broad initiates the 
architecture change management process.
Defining a government-wide training 
strategy is essential at various levels in 
the government in order to handhold and 
create awareness of the recommended 
architecture standards and guidelines 
across MDAs, ensure successful 
implementation of all ICT initiatives and 
to endow them with a proper mindset for 
adapting to new ICT initiatives.
Critical success factors
Till date, adoption of a sustainable 
enterprise architecture for the whole-of-
government has been quite challenging 
with limited success stories attributed 
mostly due to the following reasons:
• Fragmented decentralised ICT 
landscape across MDAs with an ad-
hoc architecture development, with 
limited adoption of a well-defined, 
proven, comprehensive, consistent and 
iterative methodology for architecture 
development across all MDAs
• Limited senior management awareness 
as well as commitment, with limited 
involvement of EA in decision making 
and ICT investment • Lack of a well-defined scope, with 
limited involvement of the right 
stakeholders possessing the right skill 
sets and at the right time 
Thus, considerations of the following 
critical factors are essential for the success 
of the GEA programme :
• Ensure that the business scope, business 
requirements and the performance 
measures are clearly defined. Defining 
the architecture scope is essential 
so as to decide the appropriate type 
of architectural styles to be adopted 
(e.g. the top down approach, right 
from strategico segment to capability 
architecture) and hence, ensure the 
probability of success. The scope must 
be sufficiently significant so that the EA 
delivers value and should not be broad 
in nature
• Involvement of key stakeholders at 
various stages are essential in order 
to derive the right architecture 
requirements for the transformation, 
the critical issues and the challenges 
faced, the degree of alignment of the 
business processes with the ICT systems

PwC16• Business architecture drives the 
development of subsequent application 
and data architecture. Re-engineering 
of any ICT systems should not done 
without determining the business 
requirements and the business value it 
will provide. 
• Ensure that the proposed centralised 
architecture governance model has 
appropriate senior-management, 
MDA as well as ICT department 
representation in setting directions, 
influencing plans, and approving 
project decisions, and thus expediting 
ICT decision making capabilities
• Ensure that major planned ICT 
acquisitions are to be guided and 
governed by the EA with RFP content to 
be influenced by architecture standards• Cost-benefits to be considered in 
identifying projects 
• Ensure project compliance with 
enterprise standards through proactive 
auditing and compliance review process
• Encouraging continual refinement of 
architectural standards through an 
effective change management process
• Define the right architecture reference 
model aligned with industry trends
• Leverage the right skill sets in order 
to expedite the process and quickly 
get on the right track. This includes 
not only those directly involved in the 
EA process, such as the chief architect 
and domain architects, but also those 
involved in governing and applying the EA such as project managers, 
infrastructure SMEs, and application 
developers
• Communicating to the stakeholders the 
EA programme needs and its potential 
benefit to be derived, is paramount to 
its success. In order to be successful, 
communication planning must be 
done in order to ensure that the right 
communication is taking place at the 
right time
• Conduct architecture awareness and 
training programmes on a regular basis

Smart governance and technology17e-Government transformation: 
Move towards an integrated 
whole-of-government model
Recent trends worldwide in e-Government 
transformation (as per the UN 
e-Government survey 2012) reflects a 
shift from a decentralised siloed-based 
organisation model towards a cohesive, 
co-ordinated and integrated whole-of-
government model, with greater online 
presence contributing to increased 
efficiency and agility, effectiveness and 
transparency in government service 
delivery.
Users (service 
seekers)Government 
service providersSingle access point for government 
service deliveryService delivery 
channels
Ministry of finance
Ministry of health
Ministry of education
Other MDAsG2C 
services
G2B 
services
G2E 
services
G2G 
services
National eService delivery gateway
One-stop national portal framework
Single window for 
Government 
eService
Interconnected 
government ministries, 
departments and 
agencies
Integrated whole-of-government  modelWeb browser Citizens
Mobile devices Business entities
Social mediaOther public 
sector entities
KiosksGovernment 
employees
Service 
helpdesk
Vendors or 
suppliersGovernment 
WAN or LANInternet 
or 
cellular 
network
Govern -
ment 
WAN or 
LANThe unified whole-of-government model 
aims at building a transparent, integrated 
government with interconnected 
ministries, departments and agencies 
(MDAs), leveraging the usage of ICT with 
a single government access point service 
delivery, where citizens can access most 
government services online, regardless 
of which government authority provides 
such services. Besides all possible service 
delivery channels (e.g. web, mobile, social 
media, kiosks) are being explored for 
government service provisioning in order 
to develop a sustainable government.
However, e-Government transformation 
from the siloed-based model to the 
connected whole-of-government model 
necessitates the following:• Long-term e-Government vision, 
policies and a strategic framework in 
order to deliver sustainable citizen-
centric and citizen-driven services
• Better and holistic collaboration, 
streamlined processes, standardised 
services as well as ICT systems across 
government MDAs 
• Leveraging the advances in technology 
in order to strengthen the underlying 
technical infrastructure for ICT systems, 
with a focus on integrated service 
delivery gateways so as to facilitate 
online delivery of government services, 
promote interoperability and seamlessly 
share government data across MDAs 
PwC18
FOSS versus COTS  
The rising dilemma
The advent and evolution of free and open 
source software (FOSS) has etched an indelible 
mark on the overall technological landscape 
and in the minds of key stakeholders. FOSS has 
brought about a change which is welcome, but 
at the same time disruptive in nature. 
Smart governance and technology19Foss development timeline
1976-
Emacs 
1983-GNUProject  1984-Xwindow  
1991-LinuxKernel  1995-PHP,MySQL 
1996-Apache 1999-OpenOffice 
2003 -
Firefox2005-Git 
2008 -
Android
FOSS has brought us to an era where 
individuals as well as small, medium 
and large enterprises have to allocate a 
certain amount of budget primarily for 
hardware and support. However, the rate 
of FOSS adoption, though increasing, is 
still laden with doubts in the minds of IT 
decision makers across the globe. 
This brings us to the disruptive part of 
the change. The advent of FOSS has 
stood out as a viable alternative for the 
pre-existing proprietary and commercial 
off-the-shelf (COTS) software. This has 
put decision makers in a situation where 
suddenly they have myriad viable options 
to choose from. This apprehension 
is especially prominent within the government sector where in many cases, 
factors such as revenue generation or 
profit-making are not the driving factors 
for IT implementation. 
The e-Governance initiatives should 
ultimately converge to the single goal of 
enhanced and inclusive public services 
delivery. In order to understand the 
dilemma in technology adoption for the 
government, we can browse through the 
distribution of technology across various 
delivery models of e-Government, where 
the target of the all the initiatives is 
enhanced service delivery.
Applications in e-Government
•   Digital secretariat :Desktop or web application 
•   HRMS -ESS and administration : Web application 
•   ERP: Finance, asset 
G2C
G2B
G2G
G2E•   Citizen portal: Web application
•   Citizen services: Web services
•   e-Procurement portal: Web application
•   e-Inverstor portal: Web application
•   Customer verification services: Web services 
•   Internal-digital secretariat: Web application  
•   External-financial compliance services: 
Web services 
PwC20Global factors for FOSS adoption
4.11.8
43.9
26.712.85.45.3
Performance
Security
Lower cost
Increased flexibility
Reduced vendor lock- In
Reliability
Other
Source : Coetzee N. 2002, Free and Open Source 
Software in Africa, Finish Government report
In order to understand the adoption of 
COTS within the government sector, we 
must understand the major technology 
categories that comprise a government 
enterprise. These include the following:
• Infrastructure software
• Application development software
• Business management software 
development
• Desktop and OS software developmentOSS technology category distribution over regions
00.511.522.533.54
North America Latin America Europe Africa Asia Oceania
Infrastructure software
Application development software
Business management software development
Desktop and OS software development
Source: CENATIC foundation, 2010,report on the 
International Status of Open Source Software 2010
The least penetration for FOSS is found 
in the avenues of business management 
and desktop OS software development 
reporting a 2.17 and 2.33 average 
adoption score respectively. This leads us 
to believe that the penetration of COTS 
is prominent in these two areas. The 
reasons can be envisioned as follows:
• Business management softwares such 
as enterprise resource planning(ERP) 
and human resource management 
system(HRMS) are packaged products 
provided by companies such as 
Oracle, IBM, SAP et al. These products 
have a baseline implementation 
that come out-of-the-box. They are 
then customised according to the 
enterprise. At a basic level, these 
products are ready to be deployed and 
production- ready.
• These products cater to critical 
modules that directly impact 
the operations of an enterprise, 
including financial accounting, asset 
management, purchase, etc. • A bottom-up development of these 
solutions will require a large amount 
of involvement of business users, and 
will also demand a certain amount of 
technical expertise on their part that is 
hard to attain.
• Defined technical and functional 
teams have been put in place for such 
products.
• In the area of desktop operating 
system(OS) software, worldwide 
penetration of Microsoft Windows,  
as the leading OS for desktops as well  
as laptops, mandates the use of  
COTS products.
• Across the globe, computer education 
at the basic educational level, is largely 
Windows-based in nature.
• The aforesaid factors have impacted 
the growth of Linux as a desktop OS in 
comparison to Linux as a server.
Smart governance and technology21
Important considerations for 
FOSS adoption
Legal clarity over FOSS licences: FOSS 
licences can be broadly categorised 
into ‘copyleft’ and ‘copyright’ licences. 
The copyleft licence is provided by the 
GNU general public licence(GPL) and 
the copyright licence is provided by the 
academia as well as foundations such as 
the following:
• MIT public licence
• BSD licence
• Mozilla public licence version
• Apache licence
• The academic free licence
The distribution of derived work using a 
GPL license needs to be properly validated 
by scrutinising the licence text.
Authenticity or stability of the product: 
Proper checks as well as balances need 
to be established within the government 
organisation or a governing body needs to 
be setup in order to review all open source 
initiatives within the organization so as 
to avoid the use of malicious softwares 
and the unstable version of an authentic 
product.
Important considerations for 
COTS software adoption
• Initial and recurring cost involved in a 
COTS software implementation needs 
to be justified with the adoption and 
usability of the solution in the short and 
long- term.• A rigorous change management 
initiative needs to be taken within a 
government organisation in order to 
ensure adoption through user training.
• Processes within a government 
organisation are usually well-defined 
and tested over time. COTS software 
implementation will at sometime 
demand a realignment of such 
processes, which might be resisted by 
the concerned stakeholders. This is 
especially true for a packaged solution.
•  A proper gap analysis need to be 
executed between the as-is process 
and the process defined in the COTS 
solution. This will generate a fitment 
report, and the cost of the gap that 
needs to be filled in by customisation 
needs to be justified.
• In order to ensure portability as well 
as integration, adherence to open 
standards needs to be ensured for the 
proposed COTS solution.
FOSS and COTS adoption 
strategy : PwC’s point-of-view
We believe that at the conceptual level, the 
solution to this issue can be addressed by 
mandating the use of open standards as 
the baseline. A balanced solution can be 
achieved by the proper mix of both FOSS 
as well as COTS solutions. Having said so, 
we will also like to enumerate the critical 
parameters that should drive the decision 
for the same. This includes the following:• e-Government context : G2C(includes 
G2B), G2G and G2E
• Approved budget(AB) : Austere, 
sufficient and visionary
• Current organisational maturity(COM) 
: Low, medium and high
• Current IT maturity(CIM): Low, 
medium and high
• Adaptability to process change(APC): 
Adaptive, resistive and rigid
We have seen that the above parameters 
are largely independent of each other 
with the subtle exception of the fact that 
the ‘current organisational maturity’ 
can sometimes affect the ‘adaptability 
to process change’. For example, an 
organisation in its formative stage will be 
more adaptive to change.
We have devised a matrix that will bring 
out various stages that a government 
organisation can be categorised into. 
The matrix will in turn, transform the 
organisation to a higher IT maturity level, 
and thereby provide clarity on FOSS and 
COTS adoption strategy.
PwC22e-Government context : G2C
G2C application transformation
Parameter
StageAP COM CIM APC
Stage 1 Austere Low Low Adaptive
Stage 2 Sufficient Medium Medium Resistive
Stage 3 Visionary High High RigidTransformation
FOSS and COTS adoption roadmap for a G2C initiative
Design and develop a 
custom solution using 
FOSS stackMonitor for 
scalability
Identify components to scale upReconsider product stack
Consider the viablity of a bespoke development using COTS
Our experience
The aforesaid scenario has been 
implemented in the G2C portal and 
services of one of our clients. The FOSS 
solution that was implemented initially 
had an enterprise content management 
(ECM) component. This component was 
gradually loaded with a considerable 
number of documents and started facing 
performance issues. A COTS ECM product 
was envisaged and reviewed at this 
point of time, since the application was 
mature by then, and usability and citizen 
engagement issues were decimated. ECM 
evolution stagesInitial FOSS stack•  JBoss AS•  MySQL(DB)•  Alfresco •  Community(ECM)•  JasperReportAlfresco performance issue•  Large volume•  Client had a community 
licence and no enterprise supportEvaluation of COTS ECM•  Oracle UCM•  IBM Filenet•  Documentum

Smart governance and technology23Scenario 1:  A newly formed government organisation has taken up a HRMS and ESS 
implementation for its employees. Sufficient budget has been allocated for the project,  
and as such the organisation wants to go for the best-of-breed solution. Being at the 
formative stage they are adaptive to change, and therefore will like to align themselves 
to the product chosen. This is a typical scenario where a COTS HRMS package 
implementation can be proposed.
AP COM CIM APC
Sufficient Low Low Adaptive
e-Government context : G2E
G2E services have often presented 
us with more challenging scenarios, 
thereby leading several delays in decision 
making, from the technology finalisation 
perspective from the client side. The stage 
definition in this case has to be ad-hoc 
rather than transformative in nature. We 
will use our experience to define the client 
status. The roadmap will be defined for 
a ERP, HRMS and employee self- service 
portal implementation for a typical 
government organisation, since these types 
of projects have seen a number of failures 
due to the lack of a proper roadmap. Governemnt
•	Basic HRMS 
process definition
•	Publish RFPCOTS HRMS 
package
•	Out-of-the-box 
fitment
•	CustomisationHRMS and ESS 
implementaion
•	Process realigement
•	Product-specific 
training+ =
PwC24Scenario 2:  An existing government organisation with medium organisational and  
IT maturity and with a sufficient amount of allocated budget is planning a complete 
ERP implementation, including financial accounting. The organisation is resistive to 
change, and therefore a smooth transition has to be ensured with pre-implementation  
user buy in. The business processes within the organisation are already defined yet have 
scope of improvement.
AP COM CIM APC
Sufficient Medium Medium Resistive
Analyze COTS 
ERP packages Business processre-eingineering Publish RFP forCOTS ERP package Product selectionand implementation  User training andacceptanceGo-live
•	Prepare a baseline 
capability matrix•	As-is processes
•	To-be process according to baseline
•	Gap analysis
•	Process realignment
•	List customisation requirements
•	User acceptance and sign-off•	List to-be processes •	Product configuration
•	Customisation•	Process re-alignment •	Prodcution roll-out
•	Process monitoring aginist KPIs
Scenario 3:  An existing government organisation with high organisational maturity  
and low IT maturity, and with a visionary budget is planning a complete ERP 
implementation, including financial accounting. The organisation is rigid about its 
processes, and therefore a bottom-up custom development has to be proposed for the 
organisation. Looking at its low IT maturity and rigid core processes, user acceptability is  
a big challenge for this project.
AP COM CIM APC
Visionary High Low Rigid
Implement the 
solution using FOSS stackGet user acceptance Go-liveMonitor usage,load and performanceStudy reports for product scalability issueConsider the viability of a COTS
•	Low product cost
•	High implemention 
cost•	User training
•	Resolve user issues
•	Accomodate change requests
•	User acceptance•	Production release
•	Production support•	Identify unscalable 
products
•	Reconsider product 
stack•	Performance tuning 
for highest user load
•	Routine data backup•	Assess the organisational 
process and IT 
maturity
•	Compare current 
perfromance with 
other prodcuts’ 
benchmark
Smart governance and technology25 
FactorsLevel of governance
National State Local
e-Government 
delivery modelsG2C and G2B Cost High Medium Low
Flexibility High High High
Reliability High High High
Performance High Medium Low
Security High High High
G2E Cost High High High
Flexibility High High High
Reliability High High High
Performance Low Low Low
Security Medium Medium MediumIT initiatives within the government 
sector have steadily emerged as a 
functional domain in itself. Both the 
open source community as well as 
product vendors have started aligning 
their products to fit the domain. 
Where both FOSS as well as COTS 
products populate the major technology 
platforms emerging out of accepted 
open standards, FOSS provides a clear 
cost advantage. Packaged business 
applications are a strong-hold of COTS 
product vendors, and we definitely 
envision robust investment pipeline 
around that. However, the COTS 
vendors need to rethink their pricing 
model for the government sector, since 
they are going to be challenged by the 
g-Cloud initiative taken up by various 
governments.PwC evaluation metrics
PwC uses evaluation metrics and a 
weighted approach in order to evaluate 
the FOSS and COTS adoption decision. The terms of references(TORs) of 
the requirement play a major part in 
the evaluation process, but generic 
considerations also have to be carefully 
evaluated for the products in question
Considerations for evaluation
Cost •	Cost of product
•	Product support and annual maintenance cost(AMC)
•	Implementation cost
•	Implementation support cost
Flexibility •	Availability of source code
•	Ability to change source code
•	Source code redistribution and derived licence
Reliability •	High availability support
Performance •	Peak user load
•	Duration of peak user load
•	Concurrent user load
•	Published performance benchmark
Security •	Authentication mechanism
•	Adherence to open standard cryptography
All the above parameters are weighed, 
and the weights are agreed upon with the 
client’s IT team. A specific government 
initiative is quantitatively evaluated 
against these parameters around the two prominent e-Government dimensions. 
These include the following:
• Delivery model
• Level of governance

PwC26
The Daily Mail, 9 July 2013
Thousands of air travellers faced flight chaos today after 
‘technical problems’ hit Britain’s main air traffic control 
centre. The problem led to National Air Traffic Services 
(NATS) restricting the number of aircraft flying across 
the south of England and those taking off from airports. 
A NATS spokesman said, ‘There will be delays, although 
we are not sure how long they will be.’ One airport spoke 
of ‘a widespread air traffic control issue’. A computer 
glitch was to blame for the disruption.1
The Wall Street Journal, 6 October 2013
Six days into the launch of insurance marketplaces 
created by the new healthcare law, the federal 
government acknowledged for the first time Sunday that 
it needed to fix design and software problems that have 
kept customers from applying online for coverage.2
The New York Times, 7 October 2013
The technical problems that have hampered enrollment in the 
online health insurance exchanges resulted from the failure of 
a major software component, designed by private contractors, 
that crashed under the weight of millions of users last week, 
federal officials said Monday. Todd Park, President Obama’s top 
technology advisor, said the failure occurred in the part of the 
website that lets people create user accounts at the beginning 
of the insurance sign-up process. The crash prevented many 
from viewing any of their insurance options or gaining access to 
information on what federal subsidies might be available.3QA modelling  
A critical success  
factor for governments 
1 http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2358791/National-Air-Traffic-Services-hit-glitches-control-centre.html#ixzz2jD5wCJmB
2 http://online.wsj.com/news/articles/SB10001424052702304441404579119740283413018
3 http://www.nytimes.com/2013/10/08/us/health-exchange-delays-tied-to-software-crash-in-early-rush.html?_r=0#h[]
Smart governance and technology274 Project Management Office
5 Quality AssuranceIn today’s globalised environment, the 
cycles of economy experience longer 
slowdowns and recessions. Governments 
across the world are expected to provide 
better services for their citizens and 
corporates at lower costs. Towards this, 
they make large ICT investments for 
public services such as pension systems, 
healthcare, financial services and other 
citizen centric services with the objective 
of greater efficiencies at lower cost in the 
long run. 
The six periods of global recession since 
the 1970s and six periods of financial 
crises in the 21st century sharply reduced 
the tax revenues of governments. 
Governments felt a new level of urgency 
to invest their citizens’ hard earned 
money in efficient IT systems to ensure 
that they generate a return to the best 
possible extent, keeping the costs low. 
Thereafter, government agencies faced 
the daunting challenge of maintaining the 
highest standards of quality with budgets 
lower than ever. Governments became 
cautious as citizens are now empowered 
with the power to know how their money 
is being spent and how investments are 
working towards their benefit. Eg with 
the introduction of the RTI Act on 15 June 
2005, India, a developing country, allows 
its citizens the power to know how their 
funds are being utilised for the betterment 
of society. Such citizen empowerment 
poses greater challenges to government 
entities to utilise public funds carefully 
and efficiently. Today, agencies are looking 
even more closely at how IT projects and 
initiatives are funded. 
In recent times, government agencies 
have tried to deliver successful software 
development and implementation 
projects through advanced project 
management approaches. However, 
project management primarily focusses 
on evaluating cost, risk and schedule 
variances. More often, it lacks the 
adequate objectivity required to provide 
the necessary evaluation of project 
quality. A good PMO4 is not sufficient 
for a successful initiative. However, a 
team of qualified QA5 professionals can 
objectively assess the IT application’s 
risks and help maintain the highest level 
of quality. Efficient project management 
together with QA can make significant improvements in overall project success. 
A recent Gartner survey (ID:G00231952) 
shows that 17% respondents for small IT 
projects and 11% respondents for large IT 
projects believed that quality issues are 
among the key factors for unsuccessful IT 
projects. 
However, from the PwC point 
of view, government IT projects 
need a completely different set of 
skills and standards specifically 
customised to the needs of the 
government. Some of the typical 
problems include the following:
• Unclear state of QA maturity
• No QA guiding principles 
• Ad hoc QA processes mostly 
driven by private QA service 
providers 
• No QA practice visibility 
• Lack of interest in taking QA 
ownerships
• Limited enterprise wide 
visibility of QA tools and 
processes across government 
departments 
• Limited awareness about QA 
standards 
• Limited use of QA tools 
• Lack of use of external QA 
standards 
Addressing the above challenges from the 
government perspective requires a simple, 
low-cost yet powerful QA model. We, at 
PwC, created a customised QA model for 
governments. This is designed on good QA 
practices and external open standards that 
suit the need of the governments. The QA model for governments
We created a QA model for governments 
using our experience in challenging 
assignments across many QA activities 
spread across many countries. The 
developed model was intentionally kept 
simple considering the challenges within 
government structures. However, each of 
the quadrants is further divided in smaller 
tangible and achievable activities. 
The maturity levels are the basis for the 
principles, process areas and practices. We 
created five maturity levels, six guiding 
principles, 15 process areas and 10 
practices. 
The QA model can be made operational 
in any government agency through any 
industry standard- methodology, which 
can be initiated through an assessment 
of current QA maturity. The assessment 
can be easily done through the survey 
of government officials associated with 
software project management, monitoring 
project progress or associated with 
government quality initiatives. 
Practices 
Process areas
Guiding principles 
Maturity levels
PwC28A summary of the QA maturity levels is 
shown below:
After the assessment of QA maturity of 
government agencies, design principles are 
tailored to suit target QA maturity level. 
The design principles commonly used in 
governments are as follows:
• QA policies and procedures need to 
underpin the QA model at all levels. 
• QA needs to be an integral part of the 
government IT project management. 
• QA needs to include regular evaluation 
of QA process and practices through 
independent monitoring bodies or 
agencies.
• QA needs to include context, input, 
process and output dimensions for any 
IT projects under consideration, while 
giving emphasis to outputs and learning 
outcomes.Level 1
QA processes are usually 
ad hoc
Success in these 
situations depends on 
the competence and 
undocumented knowledge 
of the people on the job 
and not on the use of 
proven QA processes
Produce products and 
services that work; 
however, they frequently 
exceed the budget and 
schedule and provides 
poor software qualities Level 2
QA processes are 
planned, performed, 
measured, and controlled
Existing QA practices are 
retained during times of 
crises
The status of the QA 
work and the delivery of 
services are visible to the 
government at defined 
pointsLevel 3
QA processes are well 
characterised and 
understood, and are 
described in standards, 
procedures, tools and 
methods
The QA standards, 
process descriptions, 
and procedures for a 
department or ministries 
are tailored from the 
government’s set of 
standard processes to suit 
a particular department or 
ministryLevel 4
QA sub-processes are 
selected to significantly 
contribute to overall QA 
process performance
Selected QA sub-
processes are controlled 
using statistical and other 
quantitative techniques 
through automated tools
Quantitative objectives 
for quality and process 
performance are 
established and used 
as criteria in managing 
processesLevel 5
Focuses on continuous 
improvment on QA 
process performance 
through both incremental 
and innovative technology 
improvements
Quantitative QA process-
improvement objectives 
are established, 
continually revised to 
reflect changing business 
objectives, and used as 
criteria in managing QA 
process improvement
The effects of deployed 
QA process improvements 
are measured and 
evaluated against the 
quantitative process-
improvement objectives
• QA systems need to include the 
following elements at the minimum: 
 -Clear and measurable objectives 
and standards, guidelines for 
implementation, including 
stakeholder involvement
 -Consistent evaluation methods, 
associating self-assessment and 
external review
 -Feedback mechanisms and 
procedures for improvement in QA 
processes 
 -Widely accessible evaluation results 
for government staffs 
Level 1
Not applicable Level 2
QA policy
QA planning
Monitoring and 
control
Design and 
execution 
QA environment Level 3
QA 
methodology 
and 
implementation 
training 
QA lifecycle and 
integration 
QA automation 
QA reviews Level 4
Quantitative 
measurement
Software quality 
evaluation 
through 
quantitative 
techniques Level 5
Quality 
prevention 
Statistical 
predictability 
of quality 
dimensions 
QA control and 
optimisation• QA needs to be a cooperative process 
across government agencies, ministries 
and departments, involving all relevant 
stakeholders and systems. 
Once design principles have been 
finalised for a targeted QA maturity, the 
construction of QA processes begins. The 
QA process is defined against each of the 
maturity levels as shown below: 
Smart governance and technology29Once QA processes are established to 
address a targeted maturity, practices 
begin to develop. We developed 10 specific 
practices that can be tailored to meet the 
specific needs of any government agency 
around the world.
Establish an organisational policy 
for QA for all IT projects 
Plan and document the QA 
process
Provide QA resources (people, 
skills, tools and trainings)
Assign responsibilities 
Train people to use and 
implement QA in IT projects 
Manage configurations for QA 
activities 
Identify and involve relevant 
stakeholders for QA practices 
Monitor and control the QA 
process 
Objectively evaluate adherence 
with QA processes
Review QA status with higher 
level management periodicallyThe final QA model for governments will 
look like the following:
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5
Guiding principles 
Not 
applicable•	QA policy
•	QA planning
•	Monitoring and 
control
•	Design and 
execution 
•	QA environment •	QA methodology 
and 
implementation 
training 
•	QA lifecycle and 
integration 
•	QA automation 
•	QA reviews•	Quantitative 
measurement
•	Software quality 
evaluation 
through 
quantitative 
techniques•	Quality 
prevention 
•	Statistical 
predictability 
of quality 
dimensions 
•	QA control and 
optimisation
Not 
applicable •	Plan and 
document the 
QA process
•	Provide QA 
resources 
(people, skills, 
tools, and 
trainings)
•	Assign QA 
responsibilities•	Establish an 
organisational 
policy for quality 
assurance for all 
IT projects
•	Train people 
to use and 
implement QA in 
IT projects
•	Identify and 
involve relevant 
stakeholders for 
QA practices•	Manage 
configurations 
for QA activities
•	Review QA 
status with 
higher level 
management 
periodically•	Monitor and 
control the QA 
process
•	Objectively 
evaluate 
adherence with 
QA processes
PwC30Benefits of QA modelling 
The QA model for government provides 
the following benefits:
• Clear state of QA maturity helps 
governments plan steps to enhance QA 
maturity if at all required. 
• Existing QA maturity can be maintained 
with ease since the QA model explicitly 
states the required process, practices 
and principles. 
• Governments are not required to 
invest money for a sudden jump in QA 
activities based on external QA advising 
companies. 
• Ad hoc QA processes mostly driven by 
private QA service providers could be 
eliminated or controlled by existing 
process, practices and principles based 
on defined maturity. 
• Good enterprise wide visibility of 
QA practices across governments 
departments 
• Governments can designate specific 
QA ownerships to its staffs to increase 
overall quality of the applications under 
use.
• The QA model encourages governments 
to create its own standards instead of 
using costly external standards which 
are difficult to follow by governments 
aging workforces. Conclusion
PwC’s QA model helps governments drive down the cost of 
software development and implementation without 
adopting specific external standards. In the context of 
governments across the world, it’s a daunting task to 
implement external standards such as CMMI, Six Sigma, 
IEEE Standard for Software Verification and Validations 
for a large workforce with mostly outdated skills. Hence, 
governments need a simple yet efficient QA model which 
does not require high CAPEX or top-of-the-line skill sets 
and yet meets the requirements of lowering project cost 
and improving citizen’s services. 
Smart governance and technology31
Farmer oriented 
architecture
Harvesting technology 
for the Indian farmer
Out of India’s 1.2 billion people, almost 
60% depend on agriculture for their 
livelihood. Agriculture and allied sectors 
contribute to 13.7% of the GDP
PwC32Information and services: 
Perspectives from Indian 
agriculture
Historically, the comparatively marginal 
Indian farmers have remained isolated from 
the larger agricultural market. A host of 
intermediaries have always existed between 
the farmer and the retail market. This has 
given rise to market anomalies which are 
detrimental to the farmers’ interests.
In many cases, farmers are unable to make 
the correct decision about the seed to be 
sown, the amount of fertilizer to be used and 
the price at which the produce is to be sold; 
all due to the lack of timely information. 
Their primary information sources are other 
progressive farmers. Radio, television and 
newspaper are the other major sources 
of information for the Indian farmer. 
Surprisingly, while extension workers reach 
only 5.8% farmers, Krishi Vigyan Kendras 
(KVKs) have been able to reach out to an 
even lesser agricultural workforce which is 
less than 1%. Clearly, the public agricultural 
extension system has been inaccessible to a 
very large section of our famers.
The recent spate of farmer suicides has 
highlighted the issue of availability and 
affordability of the agricultural credit service. 
More than 40% of these households do not 
have access to any institutional credit. One in 
every four households depends on a money 
lender for loan. The interest on these loans 
is prohibitively high and the farmers are 
trapped in the vicious cycle of taking fresh 
loans to repay earlier loans.
The widening farm to retail price spread in 
India is leading to losses both for the farmer 
and the retail consumer. Onion is a case in 
point. There has been a spurt in onion prices 
in the last decade at an alarming rate. The 
Competition Commission of India (CCI) 
notes that during the onion crisis of 2010, 
while the wholesale prices of onions were 
around 34 INR per kg, the retail price was 80 
INR per kg; a whopping margin of 135%.Strategic 
challengesGreater access to 
markets and elimination 
of middlemenAccessing agricultural markets where the farmer 
can directly negotiate the price of his produce with 
multiple sellers still remains a key challenge.
Availability of institutional 
support systemsCentral and state governments run numerous 
schemes and incentive programs to support the 
farmer community. Due to the lack of awareness, 
many farmers are unable to benefit from such 
government support systems.
Operational 
challengesDissemination of 
real-time, localised 
informationCritical farming information like weather and soil 
are not localised enough to benefit the farmers. 
Even when local information like weather forecast 
is available to the government, it does not reach 
the farmers in time for them to benefit from such 
forecasts.
Leakages in government 
delivery mechanismsGovernment delivers services to the farmers 
through organisations like agricultural marketing 
boards and banks. Due to leakages in these 
delivery mechanisms, farmers are not adequately 
benefited.
Paperwork at 
government officesIn the Indian context, small farmers are 
uncomfortable while interacting with the 
government due to the amount of paperwork 
involved.
Bridging the digital divide
With the digital revolution, the world 
has been ushered into the information 
age. Each day we are inundated with 
information from a multitude of channels. 
Yet, agricultural information is found to be 
unavailable to a staggering 60% of India’s 
farmers with small landholdings. They do 
not have access to formal credit and pay 
interest rates in the excess of 30%. While 
the retail prices are soaring, farm prices 
show hardly any increase.
The Indian farmer is losing out primarily 
as a result of information asymmetry. 
The asymmetry is fuelled by the fact 
that he is often at the wrong end of the 
digital divide. Widespread adoption and 
consequent success of the agricultural 
extension services depends largely 
on whether these services have been 
engineered to bridge this digital divide. 
The failure of public agricultural extension 
services in India can partly be attributed 
to lack of technology. Technology can help 
create the right platform for an effective 
delivery of information and services.
While technology can potentially create a 
level playing field, crude implementation 
of technology can lead to alienation of the 
users for whom the technology has been 
introduced in the first place. Nowhere is 
this alienation more prominent than the 
delivery of government services to citizens, 
especially the under-privileged section of 
the society.Any technology implementation in the 
agricultural sector must not only be sensitive 
to the special needs of farmers but also devise 
elaborate change management strategies 
for ensuring a successful adoption. We 
believe that the guiding principles for such 
implementations should be:
• push, not pull 
• localisation and pilot
Service delivery mechanisms must be 
engineered to reach the farmer’s doorstep 
and the advent of mobile telephony has made 
this easier. Information can be provided to 
the farmer through SMS.
The information stream can also be used to 
create a pull by encouraging the farmer to 
visit the nearby mandi or KVK.
Localisation is critical to the success of 
any delivery mechanism targeting the 
agricultural community. In India, local 
conditions can vary vastly from one 
district to another. Be it the soil type, the 
rainfall pattern or the fertilizer needed, all 
information provided must be specific to the 
place where the farmer resides.
Due to the heterogeneous nature of the 
population being served, it is very difficult 
to foresee the issues that may arise from a 
technology implementation for a government 
service delivery. Therefore, it is suggested 
that before beginning directly with a big 
bang approach, an incremental approach will 
help in assessing and incorporating feedback 
before a wider section of the population uses 
the technology.Farmers with no  
access to information
Modal interest rate paid by farmersSource : Strengthening pluralistic agricultural 
information delivery systems in India, P. Adhiguru et al
Source : Nature and dimensions of 
farmers’ indebtedness in India and 
Karnataka, Meenakshi Rajeev et al60%
36%
Farmer oriented architecture
The process of integrating technology 
with the delivery of agricultural extension 
services must focus on the farmers. 
Technology integration also provides us 
an opportunity for reengineering archaic 
processes and making them leaner.
Here we propose the ‘farmer oriented 
architecture’. It is a digital model with the 
farmer at its centre. It has the following 
three parts:
• information related services (IRS)
• transaction related services (TRS)
• back office operations (BOO)
IRS 
Issues like high interest rates and 
wide farm to retail price spread can be 
addressed if the government is able to 
provide the farmer correct and timely 
information. If a farmer is aware of the 
government loan schemes and where they 
can be availed, he will probably not have 
to take recourse to the local money lender. 
Similarly, if the current wholesale and 
retail prices are known, the farmer can 
bargain his selling price more effectively. 
Thus, this dissemination of information is 
the most crucial part of the architecture. 
Multiple information access channels 
must be made available to the farmer. We 
propose three access channels:
• Call centres
• SMS gateways 
• Farmer Information Facilitation  
Centres (FIFC)
Along with these, we also propose a 
self-help farmer portal for those farmers 
who have access to internet. While the 
Portal, SMS, Call centre
 
 
 
  Governance
Proc ess Metrics
Standa rds and arch itecture Farmer Agricultural xtension ee
rvicessCall centre and SMS gateway options can 
be both outbound and inbound, FIFCs 
and the farmer portal will be exclusively 
inbound.
TRS
 Leakages in the government delivery 
mechanisms reduce the efficiency 
of agricultural extension services. 
These leakages can be plugged by 
the deployment of online systems 
for transaction management. Once 
transaction management goes online, the 
transaction details of individual farmers 
can be made available through the 
information access channels. Such ready 
availability of transaction data will ensure 
a kind of community audit. The formal 
audit of transactions will become easier 
and more insightful resulting in effective 
audit suggestions.
BOO 
Due to inefficiencies in the process design, 
a lot of effort in government organisations 
is directed towards internal processes. 
This reduces the focus on the customer, 
in this case, the farmer. If the internal 
processes are automated and streamlined, 
fewer personnel will be required and 
more resources can deployed to serve the 
farmer. The different modules that will 
comprise BOO are: 
• Human resource management and 
payroll 
• Budgeting and expenditure
• Finance and accounting
• Asset managementA day in the life of a farmer
On a bright sunny morning over a cup of tea, 
Ravi is engrossed in reading the newspaper 
article about how the state Agriculture 
Marketing Produce Committee (APMC) 
has completed its transformation journey 
from an offline organisation to a completely 
integrated online organisation and how this 
will benefit farmers like him. His reading 
is interrupted when his mobile beeps. It’s a 
reminder from the local mandi officer about 
the workshop on the next season by a panel 
of agricultural scientists. It promises to be a 
helpful session and Ravi starts from home to 
attend it.
On returning from the workshop, he finds 
his son using the computer to look at the 
new farmer portal inaugurated by APMC. 
Ravi finds that the portal is in English but his 
son informs him that he can view it in Hindi 
as well. The site has been designed keeping 
a farmer’s life in mind. It has a section 
on farming with advice on seeds, pest 
management, fertilizers and soil. He browses 
through the soil section and finds that the 
soil condition in his block is also available. 
Ravi’s son points out that after considering 
the soil type; the portal recommends the 
cultivation of cereals during off season to 
boost income. Ravi finds this idea appealing. 
The weather section predicts it may rain 
heavily the following week and Ravi realises 
he will have to sell off his harvest before the 
downpour.
He calls the FIFC help desk to enquire about 
the last day’s highest and lowest paddy 
prices during the auction. He makes a note 
of them and prepares to take his harvest to 
the mandi for auctioning.
He knows that the prices in the auction over 
the last few days have been good and knows 
what price he will settle for.
At the mandi office, the transaction is 
quickly entered into the new system and he 
gets a signed transaction certificate right 
away. With the help of the officer, he gets 
to know the update on a fertilizer query 
he had raised and a grievance that he had 
registered. The officer tells him that he will 
receive intimation on his mobile once the 
grievance is resolved.
On his way back, he remembers that he 
needs to contact a veterinary doctor for his 
ailing cow. He punches a code in his mobile 
and within a few seconds, a veterinary 
doctor’s contact details reach him through 
SMS.
A smile lights up Ravi’s face. Life is better, he 
thinks.Transaction  
related services
Auction, fee 
collection, 
licence 
managementInformation  
related services
Portal, SMS, call centerOrganisation
Back office 
HR and payroll, 
finance, asset  
management
PwC34
Digital secretariat  
Strategising adoption:  
Making change work
Smart governance and technology35Structural overview of a government office in India
Prevailing issues within the 
current system
Despite exponential technological 
progress, most governments continue 
to manually process the operation of 
activities. Major challenges faced by 
government offices in India are as follows:
Multiple levels of processing
Government offices follow multiple 
levels of processing of files, which in 
turn delays the decision-making process. 
Also, tracking a particular file becomes a 
difficult process. 
Inter-departmental consultations
In many cases, inter-departmental 
consultations are required from time-to-
time. Consultations between departments 
such as finance and law, etc. are quite 
common, before any decision over a file 
is taken. Files need to be sent to other 
departments for their comments, and this 
usually lengthens the process.
Volume of records
Handling large volume of records is one of 
the biggest problems within government 
organisations. This problem has multiple 
dimensions, including space and 
preservation, indexing and searchability 
issues, among others. 
Prioritisation of files
Prioritisation is another important aspect, 
which is critical as well as difficult to 
manage. Out of several files lying with any 
individual, it is essential to prioritise only a 
certain number of files. Effective file tracking and tracing
It is a herculean task to traverse through 
several sheets of pages among countless 
files in order to locate specific information. 
Above all, the sheer management of old 
files and records while retaining the ability 
to search for specific files become all the 
more difficult with the passage of time. 
This creates hurdles in the operational 
flow within and between government 
departments.Government office
Document 
management 
(preparation and 
dissemination)File management 
(preparation and 
dissemination)Correspondence 
management 
(document receiving, 
forwarding, filing, 
searching)Response 
management 
(preparation, 
delivery, approval)Within the government 
organisational context, 
information plays a vital 
role. Each day, myriad files 
are handled by government 
offices and it becomes 
important to streamline 
the flow of data inside this 
organisational structure. 
Information is created, 
stored and forwarded 
by means of files, letters, 
notices, etc. across various 
departments.
Operational audit
Often, there are regulatory compliance 
issues which go unnoticed and unaudited 
due to the manual processes followed 
within government departments. These 
obstacles, while searching files and 
seamlessly locating information within 
them, also compounds to the problems 
associated with the process audit and 
verification. 
Need of the hour
PwC36e-ReadinessCapacity
buildingInfrastructure StrategyStrategy 
• Redesign archaic business processes 
so as to align them with contemporary 
practices and technology
• Redefine policies and regulations so as 
to incorporate ICT as a driving force  
for office management
Infrastructure
• Prepare a robust infrastructure so as to 
smoothen the process of automation 
Basic amenities such as desktops, 
networks, servers, etc need to be in 
placePwC’s point of view: Building up 
e-Readiness
PwC’s point of view: Need for a paradigm shift
I am waiting for a file
I am waiting for a fileI want to know the 
whereabouts of a file 
I want to know the 
whereabouts of a file I am outside my office
I am outside my officeI am working on a file
I am working on a file•	Request the responsible staff to provide the file
•	Staff members search for the file
•	The staff processes the file and sends it across
•	Able to search for a file from an automated system, and can track its 
whereabouts (reduces dependency on others)
•	The process of searching and forwarding has to be fast and easy•	Request the dealing officer for a particular file
•	If the file is in another department either the users have to wait for 
the file to come back or have to communicate with the external 
department to know the whereabouts of the file
•	Instantly get the history of a file with precise time stamps and allotted 
employee list through MIS reports
•	Need to have multiple reports such as the letter report, the file tracker 
and the user status in order to get the entire picture readily•	Difficult to implement the above mentioned steps due to my absence
•	Need to go back to receive or work on a file
•	Communication becomes difficult due to my absence
•	Either I have to assign a link officer or wait to get back to office
•	Can connect to my iPad or laptop in order to receive the concerned 
files in my inbox 
•	Proper authentication shall ensure security
•	Able to process the file on the move and forward the same
•	Helps to resolve urgent tasks while I am outside the Mantralaya•	Go through the file content (both correspondence as well as notesheet entry)
•	Insert the notesheet comments 
•	Add documents as and when necessary
•	Forward the file
•	To easily refer to older relevant documents 
•	To easily refer to other files by a simple search mechanism
•	Easily insert flags (even with a specified page number) before 
forwarding the concerned fileCapacity building 
• Train the end users with the requisite 
knowledge of computers so that they 
can conveniently use the new system 
Smart governance and technology37from different levels. This will lead to 
transparency and better control over 
the entire office. 
Seamless usage of the automated 
solution
• PwC has carefully analysed the 
processes and has thereby derived an 
observation that merely designing the 
system will not be enough for digital 
adoption 
• If the manual system runs parallel 
to the automated system, in such a 
situation, adoption then becomes a 
difficult process. Globally, various 
digital transformation programmes 
failed in past since this aspect was 
neglected
• Hence, PwC considers the operational 
part, ie digitisation of existing 
documents as a critical part of the 
programme
• Simply digitising documents, and 
preserving them as static data will 
only encourage repeat scanning, and 
thus the objective of a paperless office 
environment cannot be achieved
• These documents are important records 
and needs to be stored carefully so that 
they can be referred to at any given 
point of time in future. 
• All relevant documents of organisations 
need to be scanned and stored within 
the system , so that it can be referred to 
and forwarded only through the system. 
This provides benefits in the following 
ways:
 –Preservation of documents: 
The process of scanning helps 
in preserving huge volumes of 
documents. Also, in cases of disasters 
such as fire, earthquake, flood, theft, 
etc. preservation of manual records 
always remains a challenge. 
 –Ease of search: During the process of 
scanning, the metadata for all files 
as well as documents are captured 
in order to save them logically. Thus, 
it gives an added benefit for users to 
easily conduct a search by providing 
certain parameters such as date, 
subject, name, type, department, 
owner or creator etc. 
• The system has to be designed such that 
it can also deal with external files as 
well as letters that come in its manual 
form.A successful approach 
PwC’s value delivery methodology
Values delivered
The three most important values delivered 
during digital adoption are as follows:
Smart and agile system 
• The most critical aspect is to design the 
office automation system, which will 
enable users to electronically create, 
store as well as move their files and 
records. 
• The system needs to be designed in such 
a way that it complies with all the rules 
and regulations followed in the manual 
process. 
• Keeping the system user-friendly in 
nature is also another preference, so 
that the users who are accustomed 
to the manual system, face minimal 
difficulties while adopting the 
automated system. Some of the focus 
areas emphasised upon so as to keep the 
system user-friendly are as follows: –Flexibility: Mail-like features (such as 
inbox, attachments, select recipient, 
etc.) for the convenience of the users. 
Also, it should not be t rigid in nature 
so as to ensure that the needs of the 
users in exceptional cases can be 
easily handled.
 –Look and feel: The system, look 
and feel-wise, is designed such a 
way that it remains similar to the 
manual templates. For example, 
the notesheets used in the files of 
government organisations has a 
typical format. The user interface 
of such a system has been carefully 
designed so as to match a particular 
pattern, and so that users feel 
comfortable while using such a 
system. 
• Other features for monitoring purposes 
have also been also provided. Various 
MIS reports have been introduced into 
the system in order to get a birds-
eye-view of the entire organisation 
PwC38Upload documents
Documents are uploaded to the system 
in a logical manner (department -wise) 
and with a proper authentication
Officers can view their respective files 
or letters by logging into the system
Metadata validation
The metadata is validated by 
another team with the scanned 
files 
This team cross checks 
whether the correct files are 
mapped with the right metadata Metadata entry
The metadata is captured for 
each and every file in order to 
uniquely identify them by a 
simple search mechanism
Fields such as filename, 
subject, year, department, 
section, type, sub-type, etc 
are recorded
Quality check
Removal of dark patches, 
lines, etc
Alignment of pages, correction 
of page numbers in case of a 
mismatch
OCR (English-typed fonts) to 
make files fully searchableScanning
Relevant files 
(such as files, 
records, 
letters,etc) are 
scannedSteps for digitisation Mobility
• Breaking the barriers of geography and 
time are some of the most important 
values added while adopting the digital 
processes
• Generally, activities at the workplace 
are constrained by the office hours as 
well as space. Myriad decisions get 
delayed due to these barriers
• Since every decision-making process 
needs multiple processing of files 
in various levels and in multiple 
departments, often huge time and effort 
are being wasted in the transmission 
phase
• PwC has analysed this issue and has 
developed a web- based system with 
the necessary security enablement 
for digital transformation, so that the 
users can get access to the files as well 
as letters of the concerned department 
at any given point of time and from any 
place
• Availability of the system from 
mobile devices such as laptops and 
smartphones help users perform 
their tasks on the move. Proper 
authentication will ensure the security 
of confidential documents
• Helps officials to resolve urgent tasks 
while they are away from office, thus 
making the entire process fast and 
smooth
Adoption of digital transformation for file 
management and movement has taken the 
entire process to the next level. It has 
opened new dimensions for fast and 
transparent governance with adequate 
mobility in the system by reducing 
administrative burdens. Today, I can 
check my files and work on them in a cab, 
airport or even from another city. I feel like 
I am carrying the entire office on my laptop 
or tablet. PwC was a great partner in this 
technology transformation. 
Mr. Parial  
CEO, Chhattisgarh Infotech & Biotech 
Promotion Society, CHiPS

Smart governance and technology39Contacts
Pradip Bhowmick
Partner
PwC India  
Phone: +91-33-44043293
Email: pradip.bhowmick@in.pwc.com
Arunava Mitra
Managing consultant
PwC India  
Phone: 091-9836610106
Email: arunava.mitra@in.pwc.com
Editorial team
Indrasis Acharya
Sayan Basu
Subham Chattopadhyay
Sumit Rudra
Abhisek LahaAbout PwC 
PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a 
network of firms in 157 countries with more than 184,000 people who are committed to 
delivering quality in Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you 
and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, visit www.pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its member firms, each of which 
is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
 facebook.com/PwCIndia 
 twitter.com/PwC_IN
 linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
 youtube.com/pwc
Author - 
Biswadeep Biswas
Dipika Das
Indrasis Acharya
Sayan Basu
Wriddhi Majumber
Nilanjan Bose
Debesh Majumdar
Rajat Chatterjee
Somdeb Chakraborty
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member 
firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 116 - Nov 2013 IDA-Publication.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
