Title: Impact on domestic businesses: Key budget changes and analysis
Date Published: 2025-02-03 11:59:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_budget-2025-impact-domestic-companies.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

February 2025Budget 2025 - Impact on 
Domestic Companies
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies2
Preface 
The Union Budget 2025–2026, presented by the 
Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, highlights 
the Government of India’s commitment to fostering 
economic growth and enhancing the global 
competitiveness of Indian enterprises. With a 
focus on inclusive development and ease-of-
doing business, the budget introduces a series 
of transformative reforms and initiatives aimed 
at bolstering key sectors such as agriculture and 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) 
and emphasizes innovation. These measures are 
designed to stimulate private sector investments, 
uplift household sentiments and enhance the 
spending power of India’s burgeoning middle 
class. 
For domestic companies, the budget brings 
significant enhancements in credit availability, 
particularly for MSMEs, with the credit guarantee 
cover being doubled to facilitate an additional 
credit of INR 1.5 lakh crore over the next five 
years. The introduction of customised credit 
cards for micro enterprises and a new Fund 
of Funds for start-ups further highlights the 
government’s support for entrepreneurial ventures. 
Additionally, the budget proposes substantial tax 
reforms, including a new income-tax bill aimed at 
simplifying the tax structure and reducing litigation, 
thereby fostering a more business-friendly 
environment. 
The budget also emphasises investment in 
people and innovation, with initiatives such as the 
establishment of National Centres of Excellence 
for skilling, expansion of medical education and 
the launch of a Deep Tech Fund of Funds. These 
efforts are complemented by sector-specific 
measures, including support for clean tech 
manufacturing and the promotion of exports 
through the Export Promotion Mission. Together, 
these initiatives aim to reduce compliance and 
create a robust ecosystem for Indian companies 
to thrive, innovate and contribute to the vision of a 
Viksit Bharat. 
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies3Towards simplified 
tax laws
In the Union Budget 2024–25, the Indian 
Government initiated a comprehensive review 
exercise to make the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the 
Act) concise and easy to understand. Public inputs 
and suggestions were invited in four categories, 
namely, simplification of language, litigation 
reduction, compliance reduction and removal of 
redundant or obsolete provisions. In line with the 
announcement, the Finance Minister has stated that 
the new Direct Tax Bill is to be tabled in the coming 
days. However, a slew of amendments are also 
introduced under the current Act under the Finance 
Bill, 2025. These amendments aim to achieve 
rationalisation, reduction of disputes and clarify tax 
laws. A snapshot of the key amendments impacting 
domestic companies in India is provided in the 
ensuing paragraphs. 
The income-tax rates applicable for a domestic 
company remain unchanged for previous year 
2025–26, as tabulated below. Stability in income-tax rates
Category Tax rate
Companies opting section 115BAB of the Act 15% plus 10% surcharge plus 4% cess
Companies opting section 115BAA of the Act 22% plus 10% surcharge plus 4% cess
Companies not opting for sections 115BAA or 
115BAB of the Act and whose total turnover in 
previous year 2023–24 does not exceed INR 
400crores25% plus surcharge** plus 4% cess
** 7% surcharge, where total income is between 
INR 1crore and INR 10crore; 
12% surcharge, where total income exceeds INR 
10crore.
Other companies 30% plus surcharge** plus 4% cess
** 7% surcharge, where total income is between 
INR 1crore and INR 10crores; 12% surcharge, 
where total income exceeds INR 10crores.

PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies4Safe Harbour Rules are currently applicable to 
identified specific categories of eligible transactions 
such as Software Development Services, 
Information Technology-Enabled Services (ITES), 
Knowledge Process Outsourcing (KPO) Services, 
Contract Research and Development Services, 
Manufacture and export of Core Auto Components, 
Specified Financial transactions. All of these classes 
have defined limits and defined arm’s length prices 
which are accepted by the tax department thereby 
providing tax certainty. 
During the budget speech, the Hon’ble Fin Min 
mentioned that the scope of the existing Safe 
Harbour scheme will be expanded. The details are 
expected to follow.Towards certainty – Expanding 
the scope of the Safe Harbour 
Scheme
The government continues the effort to promote 
domestic manufacturing and value addition by 
increasing the Basic Customs Duty (BCD) on the 
import of goods and reducing or exempting BCD  
on components, parts and capital goods. This 
budget focuses on the following key products:
1. Interactive Flat Panel Display (IFPD) BCD is 
increased from 10% to 20%; and 
Parts and Components of IFPD BCD is reduced 
to either 5% or nil.
2. Certain capital goods used for manufacture 
of electric vehicle battery and mobile phone 
battery are exempt from immediate effect. This 
will reduce the capex cost and promote local 
manufacturing in India    Promote domestic manufacturing 
and value additionTime limit prescribed for finalising provisional 
assessment under Customs: Currently, Customs 
law does not specify a time limit for finalising 
provisional assessments. The Union Budget 2025–
26 proposes to introduce a two-year timeline, with a 
one-year extension (for sufficient reasons) and few 
exceptions. This proposal ensure that assessment 
will be finalised within the prescribed timeline.  
Pending Special Valuation Branch investigations 
are likely to be completed faster due to this 
amendment.  
Conditions and compliances for import of goods 
at concessional rate of Customs duty relaxed: 
Currently, goods imported at concessional rate of 
Customs duty for use in the manufacture of final 
product are required to be used within six months 
of the date of import. Given the bulk procurements, 
companies had to pay the Customs duty along with 
interest for use beyond the prescribed timeline.  The 
Union Budget 2025–26 increases the timeline from 
six months to one year and relaxes the monthly 
filing requirement to a quarterly filing. This is a 
beneficial amendment for the industry and saves 
cost and time. Whether the said amendment would 
be applicable to goods already imported is to be 
assessed. 
Voluntary revision of import and export 
documents: The industry has been struggling 
to amend bills of entry and shipping bills after 
the clearance of the goods in case of a mistake, 
error or other legal requirements. The request for 
amendments to rectify the mistake was earlier made 
to the Customs authorities, and the entire process 
was time consuming and prone to interpretation and 
litigation. This budget’s proposals insert a provision 
for the voluntary revision of entry post clearance 
of the goods. The timeline and other procedural 
aspects are expected to follow the enactment 
of this provision. This is also a significant trade 
facilitation measure.  Simplification and facilitation of 
trade
The landmark decision of the Supreme Court in 
the case of Safari Retreat allowed GST input tax 
credit on goods and services received by a taxable 
person for the construction of an immovable 
property, which qualify as plant or machinery. The 
Union Budget 2024–25 proposes a retrospective 
amendment with effect from 1 July 2017 to section 
17(5)(d) of the CGST Act 2017, by replacing the term 
‘plant or machinery’ to ‘plant and machinery’. This is 
expected to have a significant impact on the credit 
availed by taxpayers on immovable property in 
specific scenarios treating it as plant or machinery. 
The applicability of the Supreme Court ruling after 
this amendment is to be evaluated.Key amendment based on the 
GST Council recommendations  
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies5
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies6Industry-specific 
measures
India has actively been pushing towards fostering 
a robust start-up ecosystem since 2016 as a part 
of ‘the Start-up India’ initiative and is now home 
to the world’s third largest start-up ecosystem. 
Eligible start-ups enjoy a three-year tax holiday on 
their profits out of ten years, provided the start-up 
company is incorporated within the specified time 
limit. While the said tax provision was about to hit 
its sunset, the government has been extending the 
benefit on a yearly basis during recent budgets. 
The Union Budget 2025 further extends the benefit 
of a tax holiday to all eligible start-ups which are 
incorporated before 1 April 2030. As India continues 
its journey towards becoming a global leader in 
innovation, this extension is expected to foster a 
vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem.Incentivising start-ups 
A separate chapter XII-G was brought in vide the 
Finance Act, 2004 to promote the Indian shipping 
industry, by introducing a tonnage tax scheme 
for Indian shipping companies satisfying specific 
conditions. This scheme provided for a presumptive 
taxation for sea-going ships. To promote inland 
water transportation in the country and to attract 
investments in the shipping sector, the budget 
proposes to extend the benefits of the tonnage 
tax scheme to inland vessels registered under 
the Inland Vessels Act, 2021 with effect from 
Assessment Year (AY) 2026–27.Boost for shipping industry
Carry forward of losses in case of merger 
or succession
Amendments are proposed to provisions related 
to the carry forward and set off of accumulated 
losses in cases of amalgamation or business 
reorganisation, wherein the successor entity would 
be eligible to carry forward the accumulated 
losses, for the balance unexpired period of eight 
AYs alone. The proposed amendment aims to 
prevent the practice of ‘evergreening’ of losses, 
where losses of the predecessor entity are carried 
forward for a period of more than eight years 
through amalgamation(s), thereby ensuring a more 
disciplined and time-bound approach to loss 
carry forward. These changes are proposed to 
be applicable for any amalgamation or business 
reorganisation effected or brought into force on or 
after 1 April 2025.M&A measures

PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies7Rationalising 
compliances
The basic thresholds above which TDS is applicable 
has remained unchanged for several years. With 
effect from 1 April 2025, the following changes are 
proposed to the threshold for TDS applicability:TDS and TCS – Easing the rigours
Provisions of the Act/ Nature 
of incomeCurrent threshold** Proposed threshold**
Interest on securities  
(section 193)Nil INR 10,000
Income from mutual funds 
(section 194K)INR 5,000 INR 10,000
Commission or brokerage 
(section 194H)INR 15,000 INR 20,000
Rent (section 194-I) INR 2,40,000 INR 50,000 per month or  
part of a month
Fees for technical services, 
professional services, royalty etc. 
(section 194J)INR 30,000 INR 50,000
**Annual limits, unless specified otherwise
TCS on sale of goods is proposed to be abolished, 
bringing about significant relief from compliance burden 
on transactions. Moreover, sections 206AB and 206CCA 
of the Act were introduced to penalise taxpayers who do 
not file tax returns, by mandating the payers of income to 
deduct higher rates of taxes at source. Pursuant to the said 
provision, the payers of income were required to verify the 
payee’s tax return filing status at the instance of complying 
with TDS. Moreover, the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
introduced a tool on the reporting portal for such exercise. 
However, considering the compliance burden involved, the 
said provisions are proposed to be abolished with effect 
from 1 April 2025. The above measure aims to reduce the time and resources 
embroiled in compliance and increase ease-of-doing 
business in India.
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies8To encourage voluntary tax compliance, the Indian 
Government, vide the Finance Act, 2022, allowed 
filing of ‘Updated return’ within a period of 24 
months from the end of the relevant AY , on payment 
of additional income tax. Vide Budget 2025, the 
Finance Minister proposes to extend the time 
limit to file the updated return from the existing 24 
months to 48 months from the end of the relevant 
AY , with 60% additional income tax payable, if filed 
between 24 to 36 months and 70% payable, if filed 
between 36 to 48 months.
It is also proposed to allow the taxpayers to file the 
updated return, even if re-assessment proceedings 
are initiated after 36 months, but dropped later. This 
is expected to further facilitate voluntary compliance 
by taxpayers and also reduce potential disputes 
with tax authorities. The conditions relating to filing 
an updated return (cannot lead to increased losses, 
claim of refund etc.) continue to apply. Facilitating voluntary compliance
Similar to the specified financial transaction 
reporting, crypto-asset transactions are proposed 
to be brought in within the reporting framework with 
effect from 1April 2026. Income-tax rules are to be 
notified to define the ‘reporting entity’, the nature 
of information to be maintained and due diligence 
procedures to be carried out by the reporting entity 
for identification of any crypto-asset user or owner. 
As a step towards the implementation of the 
Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework brought in 
by the Organisation of Economic Co-operation 
and Development, the Government’s proposal of 
introducing a domestic reporting framework can 
be seen as a push for transparency in crypto-asset 
transactions, enabling tax authorities to monitor and 
address gaps in existing tax framework.
The definition of Virtual Digital Assets is 
expanded to include any crypto-asset, which 
is a digital representation of value that relies on 
a cryptographically secured distributed ledger 
or a similar technology to validate and secure 
transactions.Bringing crypto under the net

PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies9Dispute resolution 
measures
One of the key agendas of the Indian government 
in the recent past has been to reduce tax litigation 
and provide certainty to taxpayers. Accordingly, the 
time limit for imposing penalty is now rationalised 
to mean expiry of six months from the end of the 
quarter in which the connected proceedings are 
completed or receipt of the relevant order by the tax 
authorities. Additionally, penalties are to be levied by 
the Tax Officer (TO) as against Joint Commissioners 
under the existing law. 
Moreover, the existing law provides for the taxpayer 
to apply for immunity from penalty and prosecution 
within one month from the end of the month in 
which the relevant order was passed. The taxpayer 
is to represent the case before the TO, who will 
dispose of the application within a period of one 
month from the end of month in which application is 
received. The period for processing the application 
is increased from one month to three months with 
effect from 1 April 2025. 
Additionally, relief is provided from prosecution in 
respect of failure to deposit TCS by the taxpayer, 
provided the same is deposited on or before the 
time limit prescribed for filing the TCS statement .Rationalising penalty provisions
Taxpayers engaged in international transactions 
or specified domestic transactions are currently 
subjected to annual transfer pricing assessments in 
India wherein these transactions are scrutinized for 
adherence with arm’s length principle for each year 
even if the transactions are similar and there is no 
change in facts. 
The Union Budget 2024-25 has proposed to 
introduce an option to taxpayers to undergo transfer 
pricing assessments for a block of three years in 
order to ease the burden of annual transfer pricing 
assessments.  
It is proposed that the taxpayer shall be provided 
with the option by the transfer pricing officer 
during transfer pricing assessment to get the arm’s 
length price (“ALP”), determined in relation to an 
international transaction or a specified domestic 
transaction for any previous year, applied to a 
similar transaction for the two consecutive previous 
years immediately following such previous year. The 
option of block assessment shall not be available 
for search cases.Block transfer pricing 
assessment scheme
Search cases 
The concept of block assessment was re-
introduced vide the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024 for 
search cases. The following changes are proposed:
•	Undisclosed income, as found during the course 
of the search, is proposed to include crypto-
assets. Changes in block assessments•	Along with the assessment proceedings, re-
assessment, recomputation, reference or order 
relating to any AY will abate, upon the search 
being initiated.
•	Computation of income for the purpose of 
section 158BB(1) of the Act is clarified to provide 
appropriate treatment for income based on 
books of accounts. 
•	The time limit for the completion of block 
assessments is to be 12 months from the end of 
the quarter (as against the end of the month) in 
which the last of the authorisations for search or 
requisition is executed.
10
These changes are to take effect from  
1 April 2026. 
While the form, manner and time limit to opt for 
block TP assessment are yet to be prescribed, this 
rationalisation measure is intended to be in line 
with global best practices to ease the compliance 
and administrative burden on the taxpayers and tax 
authorities alike.
PwC  |  Budget 2025 - Impact on Domestic Companies
About PwC
At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important problems. We’re a network of 
firms	in	151	countries	with	over	360,000	people	who	are	committed	to	delivering	quality	in	assurance,	
advisory and tax services. Find out more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at www.pwc.com.
PwC	refers	to	the	PwC	network	and/or	one	or	more	of	its	member	firms,	each	of	which	is	a	separate	
legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
© 2025 PwC. All rights reserved.
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0 (Public)
In this document, PwC refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India having Corporate 
Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited 
(PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
This document does not constitute professional advice. The information in this document has been obtained or derived from 
sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this 
information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this document represent the judgment of PwCPL at 
this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice 
before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. 
PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information 
contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2025 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. 
KS - February 2025 - M&C 
