Title: pwc_dissecting-indias-risk-equity-premium
Date Published: 2013-07-08 10:37:58+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_dissecting-indias-risk-equity-premium.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Dissecting 
India’s Equity 
Risk Premium
How much to expect on 
your equity investments  
Authored by Vishnu Giri, 
assisted by Sireesha Sivala
Under the guidance of 
Rajan Wadhawan and  
Rohit Bhasin
2 PwCBrealey Myers in  ‘Principles of Corporate Finance’  defines equity 
risk premium (ERP) as ‘the difference between the returns 
expected on the market and the interest rate on treasury bills’. 
The ERP may be viewed as ‘risk compensation’ for investing in 
equity markets as against assets that are relatively risk-free.
ERP has numerous applications: valuation of companies, capital 
budgeting and even economic policymaking. Several papers 
have attempted to determine the ERP for developed markets, 
notably the US. The most widely used method for determining 
ERP is the historical method, which is based on the fundamental 
hypothesis that excess returns earned in the past serve as a 
reasonable parameter for excess returns that can be expected 
in the future. While the historical method may work reasonably 
well for developed markets like the US with a fairly long history, 
the same approach is likely to yield dissatisfactory results for 
emerging markets like India, with relatively short and volatile 
equity market histories. This paper attempts to evaluate the ERP 
for India1 through alternate methods.
ERP parameters
By definition, the ERP is the difference between the expected 
return on the market and the risk free rate. Hence, it is 
important to first define the following:
• The market
• The risk-free rate
The market
Selection of an index as a proxy for the equity market can be 
quite a task – essentially, the chosen index should be reflective of 
the market as a whole. Hence logic dictates a compelling case for 
the CMIE Cospi Index (over 2800 stocks) or the BSE 500 rather 
than the BSE Sensex, which includes only 30 stocks.  
In this context, it is important to note that the ERP is an integral 
component of the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) which 
states that a company’s cost of equity is equal to the aggregate of 
the risk-free rate and the ERP multiplied by the said company’s 
systematic risk (beta). Therefore, for application in the CAPM, 
there has to be consistency between the beta and the ERP, i.e. 
the beta should be measured against the same index, based on 
which the ERP has been determined. Since in India betas are 
generally measured against the BSE Sensex (or the NSE Nifty, 
which is highly correlated with the Sensex) it is best to measure 
ERP using the Sensex or the Nifty. In this paper, we consider the 
BSE Sensex to be our market portfolio.
The risk-free rate
The risk-free rate can be defined as the return on a security or 
portfolio of securities that has no default risk and is completely 
uncorrelated with returns on anything else in the economy. 
While no security may be 100% risk-free, practically there are 
three alternatives for determining the risk-free rate; treasury 
bills, 10-year treasury bonds, 30-year treasury bonds. The rate 
on 10-year treasury bonds is generally considered the superior 
choice, considering better duration matching compared to 
short-term treasury bills, and smaller beta and lower liquidity 
premium compared to longer term (30-year) bonds.However, the risk quotient of bonds issued by the Indian 
government would need to be analysed further, to assess if 
these are really risk free. India’s sovereign ratings issued by 
Moodys (Baa3) or S&P (BBB-) suggest that treasury securities 
issued by the Indian government do carry an element of default 
risk, and hence cannot be considered risk-less in the true sense 
of the term. Therefore, theoretically, the default credit spread 
should be ideally reduced from the yield on government bonds 
while arriving at the risk-free rate. Though this argument holds 
some merit, it is worthwhile to do a cross check whether the 
yields on the 10-year treasury bonds do indeed incorporate a 
default risk premium. 
The 10-year annual inflation (April 2003- March 2012) as 
measured by WPI, CPI(IW) and GDP deflator are tabulated 
below:
In comparison, the average daily yield on 10-year government 
bonds during the same period is around 7.3%. It is evident that 
the real returns on 10-year treasury bonds have been as low as 
0.3 to 1.7%. Therefore it appears that the market considers the 
probability of sovereign default to be remote. Consequently, it 
may be inferred that the yield on the 10-year rupee denominated 
government securities can be considered a suitable choice for a 
risk-free rate.
Methods to determine ERP
Prof Aswath Damodaran2 in his paper ‘Equity Risk Premiums 
(ERP): Determinants, Estimation and Implications – The 2012 
Edition’ discusses three methods for determining the ERP:
• Survey method
• Historical premium method
• Implied premium method
Survey method
The survey method determines the ERP based on a survey of 
various market participants and academics. Prof Damodaran  
has cited several issues with the survey method. Survey 
responses tend to vary significantly based on various factors 
such as recent stock price movements, who is surveyed 
(academics vs CFOs vs investment professionals), how survey 
questions are framed, etc. Subjectivity of the questionnaire and 
respondent proves to be a hurdle. Hence, we did not attempt this 
method in determining the ERP.
1. Since ERP is a function of time, the ERP has been evaluated as on 31 December 2012.
2. Prof. Aswath Damodaran is a Professor of Finance at the Stern School of Business at New York University, where he teaches corporate finance and equity valuation. 
He is best known as author of several widely used academic and practitioner texts on Valuation, Corporate Finance, and Investment Management, and is widely 
recognised as an authority in the field of valuation.CPI (W) WPI GDP deflator
 Ten-year inflation 7.0% 6.1% 5.6%Ten-year inflation
Source: National accounts, Labour bureau
Dissecting India’s Equity Risk Premium         3Year Change 
in indexDividend 
yieldTotal 
returnAverage risk 
free rateERP
2000 34% 1% 35% 11.4% 23.6%
2001 -28% 1% -27% 10.9% -37.9%
2002 -3% 1% -2% 8.8% -10.8%
2003 -13% 1% -12% 6.9% -18.9%
2004 83% 1% 84% 5.4% 78.7%
2005 16% 1% 17% 6.2% 10.9%
2006 74% 1% 75% 7.1% 68.0%
2007 16% 1% 17% 7.8% 9.3%
2008 20% 1% 21% 7.9% 13.2%
2009 -38% 1% -37% 7.6% -44.5%
2010 81% 1% 82% 7.2% 74.8%
2011 11% 1% 12% 7.9% 4.2%
2012 -10% 1% -9% 8.4% -17.3%Annualised daily standard 
deviation- BSE SensexAnnualised daily standard 
deviation- S & P 500
10 Year 25.8% 21.8%
5 Year 29.5% 26.7%
2 Year 18.5% 19.7%
1 Year 19.9% 23.2%
3. The difference between the return on the market and the returns on the risk-free security during any given year
4. This FCFE yield has been computed based on the aggregate of the FCFE for all 30 Sensex companies for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 (the latest data 
available) divided by the Sensex market capitalisation as on 31 December 2012. (While a six-month average market capitalisation would have been ideal, it becomes 
difficult to account for changes to the Sensex composition.)Historical premium method
The historical risk premium approach is widely used for 
determining equity risk premiums. It is based on a geometric 
or arithmetic average of the annual risk premia3, over a 
sufficiently long period of time. The key question here is do 
we have a sufficiently long and stable history to determine a 
reliable historical risk premium. Some of the important points to 
consider are as follows:
• While the base year of the Sensex is 1979, the index was 
actually formulated in 1986, and the series was back-
calculated to 1979 with a fixed set of companies. This 
may have resulted in a bias in favour of companies which 
generated good returns over the 1979–1986 period.
• With structural changes in the economy post liberalisation 
in the early 1990s, the relevance of prior equity returns for 
predicting future expected returns is questionable.
• Participation in the T-bill market was highly regulated before 
2000, and therefore there is no reliable estimate for risk-free 
rates prior to 1999. While some studies  have computed the 
risk premium relative to the bank deposit rate, it is essentially 
a short-term rate and not consistent with our definition of 
the risk-free rate as the return on 10-year securities.
This leaves us with just 12 years (2000-2012) for which a 
representative historical risk premium can be reliably calculated. 
The risk premium for each of these years is tabulated below:
Source: BloombergSource: BloombergDrawing any conclusions from the above data is practically 
impossible.
An alternative suggested by Prof Damodaran for emerging 
markets is to adjust the equity risk premium for a developed 
market, say the US, for relative standard deviations (ratio of the 
standard deviation of the subject country market portfolio to the 
standard deviation of the US market portfolio). This method is 
based on the hypothesis that standard deviation being a measure 
of risk, the higher the standard deviation of the index, the riskier 
the index and therefore higher the risk premium.
Equity risk premium country X = Risk premium US* Relative 
standard deviation country X
This approach does not seem to work well for India, as the 
relative standard deviations vary significantly, depending on the 
chosen time period. Moreover, the relative standard deviations 
over a one or two-year period is less than one, implying that ERP 
for India should be less than that for the US, which is counter-
intuitive.
Thus, while the survey method has a number of limitations, the 
applicability of the historical risk premium method in the Indian 
context is also limited. This brings to us to the implied premium 
method. Historical equity risk premiumsAnnualised daily standard deviation 
4 PwCCorporate earnings/GDP ratioFCFE growth and earnings growth 
Having arrived at the current FCFE yield, the next step is to 
project the growth rate in FCFE. There are no reliable estimates 
for FCFE growth in the short to near-term. However, analyst 
estimates of Sensex earnings growth are available for calendar 
year (CY)13 and CY14. For evaluating the relation between 
FCFE growth and earnings growth, we looked at a simplistic 
definition of FCFE (ignoring preferred capital and dividends on 
the same).
FCFE = net income + depreciation – capital expenditure – 
increase in working capital + net debt increases. 
The capital expenditure (capex) can be split into two 
components (maintenance capex and capex for growth). In the 
long run, maintenance capital expenditure should approximate 
depreciation. Thus the formula can be restated as follows:
FCFE = net income – capex for growth – increase in working 
capital+ net debt increase
Or FCFE = net income – reinvestment for growth + net debt 
increase.
This can be rewritten as
FCFE = net income – RR * g *net income + D/C* RR*g* net 
income = net income *(1- RR*g(1-D/C))
Where RR = reinvestment ratio
g = growth rate in net income
D/C = debt to capital ratio
In a long-term stable state, RR, g and D/C should become fairly 
constant, thus implying that FCFE would become proportionate 
to earnings. In other words, in the long run, growth rates in 
FCFE should approximate earnings growth rates. However, 
this may not hold in the short term as all three variables, RR, g 
and D/C can vary in the short term. Since we are interested in 
long-term FCFE growth as opposed to the short term, we use 
earnings growth to determine expected FCFE growth rates. 
While consensus Sensex earnings growth estimates are available 
for CY13 and CY14 [CAGR of 11% (source: Bloomberg)], 
determining growth beyond CY14 is essential. Hence, linking 
GDP growth and earnings growth becomes important.
Earnings growth and GDP growth
A study by Delta Global Partners  has highlighted that over the 
last few years, corporate earnings growth has outpaced GDP 
growth. [Now, GDP growth here refers to nominal GDP growth, 
as opposed to real GDP growth, as earnings (and free cash-
flows) are always nominal].
Source: Delta global partnersImplied premium approach
The implied premium approach is based on the fundamental 
premise that the expected return on the market portfolio is 
built into the current market valuations. This is conceptually a 
superior approach, as it is forward looking, unlike the historical 
approaches.
The simplest way to compute the implied premium is by 
applying the Gordon Growth Dividend Discount model. The 
Gordon Growth model states:
V = D0 *(1+g)/(Re-g)
Where 
V = Total market capitalisation of the index
D0 = Dividends for current period
g = Expected growth rate in dividends
Re= Expected return on equity
Or 
Re - g = D0 *(1+g)/  V
Or 
Re = Dividend yield *(1+ g) +  g
Once the dividend yield and expected growth rate are 
determined, the expected return on equity and therefore, the 
ERP, can be estimated.
In India, the historical dividend yields have been very low, 
around 1%, and the returns on equity have been primarily 
through capital appreciation. Thus the classic Gordon Growth 
model will result in a very low estimate of expected returns, and 
therefore, the ERP.
Hence it becomes imperative to analyse dividendable cash flows 
as opposed to dividends. In other words, free cash flow yield is a 
more appropriate measure compared to dividend yield.
The free cash flow to equity (FCFE) yield for the Sensex as of 31 
December 2012 is around 5.5%4 . 
Now, do we use the current FCFE yield to project future FCFEs, 
or use a historical average? The three-year average (FY10-
FY12) is 6.1% compared to the current yield of 5.5%4. Here, it 
is important to keep in mind that ERP is very much a function 
of time. For example, the FCFE yield in FY09 was much higher 
at 11%, driven by the drastic fall in market capitalisations not 
accompanied by fall in free cash flows. To state differently, the 
ERPs were significantly higher at the time, due to heightened 
risk perception as a result of the then global uncertainties, as 
reflected in the market crash. Hence, the current FCFE yield has 
been assumed to reflect the best estimate of future expected free 
cash flows, as on 31 December 2012.
4. This FCFE yield has been computed based on the aggregate of the FCFE for all 30 Sensex companies for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 (the latest data 
available) divided by the Sensex market capitalisation as on 31 December 2012. (While a six-month average market capitalisation would have been ideal, it becomes 
difficult to account for changes to the Sensex composition.)
Percentage
Dissecting India’s Equity Risk Premium         5Term Inflation
15 Year 5.4%
10 Year 5.6%
5 Year 6.6%Annual inflation based on GDP deflator
Year of 
estimateForecast period Annual real GDP 
growth estimate
CEPII 2006 2006 - 2050 4.5%
Citigroup 2010 2010 - 2050 6.4%
Goldman Sachs 2003 2010 - 2050 5.8%
PwC 2011 2009 - 2050 6.1%
HSBC 2011 2010 - 2050 5.5%Real GDP forecasts - IndiaSource: National accounts
Source: Various reportsStructural changes in the economy have resulted in relatively 
higher growth in earnings compared to GDP growth. 
Sustainability of such an outperformance needs to be analysed. 
GDP, as determined by the income approach is defined as 
follows:
GDP = compensation of employees + rent + interest + 
proprietor’s income + corporate profits + indirect business taxes 
+ depreciation + net foreign factor income
This can be rewritten as:
GDP = compensation of employees + rent + interest + profits 
+ indirect business taxes + depreciation + net foreign factor 
income
Profits are nothing but earnings. Thus, if the relative mix of 
the various components of GDP does not change, the earnings 
growth should mirror GDP growth. Therefore, in the long term, 
earnings growth, and free cash-flow growth, should converge to 
GDP growth. This conclusion is corroborated by a study by MSCI 
Barra  in the US. The study examined the US GDP and corporate 
earnings data from 1929 to 208, and observed that the growth 
in GDP and aggregate corporate earnings have been remarkably 
similar throughout the last 80 years, thus leading to the 
conclusion that over the long run, aggregate corporate earnings 
tend to grow at the same pace as GDP.
An estimate of long-term GDP growth will comprise of two 
components, the long-term expected real GDP growth and the 
long-term expected inflation.
Long-term expected GDP growth
A number of reputed institutions  have come out with their 
estimates of long-term (till 2050) real GDP growth forecasts  
for India. A synopsis of these estimates is provided below:
For the purpose of our analysis, the most conservative of these 
estimates - 4.5% has been chosen. 
Inflation 
Historical inflation figures vary depending on the proxy chosen 
for the estimation- the WPI, the CPI(IW) or the GDP deflator, 
to name a few. It is important to understand the objective, 
which is to arrive at the nominal GDP forecasts from the real 
GDP forecasts. Therefore, by very definition, the GDP deflator 
(defined as nominal GDP/real GDP *100), becomes the ideal 
choice.While analysing the historical inflation trends, it is important to 
note the structural changes in the economy in the early 1990s. 
As per Hindu Business Line,  historical inflation in India has 
been high due to a combination of factors: poor agricultural 
productivity and high dependence on monsoon; commodity 
price shocks, mainly oil prices; global business cycles and wars. 
During the 1970s and the early 1980s, OPEC price hike and 
inconsistent oil supply was one of the major factors that led 
to higher inflation in India. In the 1980s and the early 1990s, 
supply shocks (food shortages and oil price rise due to the 
US-Iraq war) were accompanied by demand pressures of high 
fiscal deficit in the 1980s and growing GDP in the 1990s. The 
declining trend in inflation during 1994-95 to 2004-05 was the 
result of structural changes in the macroeconomic framework 
due to liberalisation. The improved supply response, improved 
financial and real economy, better monetary policy and 
emphasis on fiscal consolidation were instrumental in bringing 
down the inflation.
Keeping this in mind, the inflation rates pre-1995 may be of little 
relevance in forecasting future inflation. The historical trends in 
GDP deflator, during the past 15 years, are tabulated below:
Considering that the last three years (FY10-FY12) have 
witnessed relatively high inflation, the 10- or 15-year inflation 
numbers (which capture both high and low inflation periods) 
may represent a better estimate of expected future long-term 
inflation. Based on these, the long-term inflation is estimated at 
5.5%.
Summing up the expected real GDP growth rate of 4.5% and the 
expected GDP deflator based inflation rate of 5.5%, the nominal 
GDP growth per annum is expected to be around 10%.
Perpetual growth rate5
Considering the long-term growth rates of developed 
economies, the long-term sustainable real GDP growth rate 
has been estimated at 2%. In conjunction with inflation of 
5.5%, the long-term nominal GDP growth rate (and therefore 
earnings and free cash flow growth rate) is estimated at 7.5%. 
It is pertinent to note that the estimate of long-term growth 
rate is for the economy and index as a whole, and is not likely 
to be representative of long-term growth rates for individual 
companies, which would depend on the industry prognosis and 
company-specific plans.
5. The perpetual growth rate is the expected annual growth rate to infinity. Implicitly the growth rates are expected to decline to a low growth rate as India cannot be 
expected to grow at rates higher than those of developed economies beyond a finite period.
Growth rates and the three-stage FCFE model
While the Gordon Growth formula assumes a stable growth 
rate to perpetuity, such an assumption will rarely be in sync 
with market expectations. We have arrived at estimates of 11% 
FCFE growth per annum for CY13 and CY14, a subsequent long-
term growth rate of 10%, and a perpetual growth rate of 7.5%.  
While the various real GDP growth estimates are for a period 
till 2050, considering the high degree of uncertainty relating 
to growth over such a long period (reflected in the differences 
in the various estimates), it is highly unlikely that the market is 
factoring in these estimates of real growth for such a long period 
of time. At the same time, the market will not be anticipating 
real growth rates as low as 2% over the next 10 to 15 years 
either. Hence we consider a three stage FCFE growth model as 
follows:
• Stage 1: Growth rate of 11% during CY13 and CY14 
• Stage 2: 10% per annum for a 15-year period from CY15  
to CY29
• Stage 3: 7.5% per annum thereafter. References
• Prof Aswath Damodaran – Equity Risk Premiums 
(ERP): Determinants, Estimation and Implications – 
The 2012 Edition
• Ajay Shah – Returns on equity index portfolios  
in India
• Rajnish Mehra – The Equity Premium in India
• Delta Global Partners Research- Corporate Earnings 
and GDP: The Siamese Cousins
• MSCI Barra – Is There a Link Between GDP Growth 
and Equity Returns?
• HSBC Global Research – The world in 2050: 
Quantifying the shift in the global economy ; PwC – 
The World in 2050: The accelerating shift of global 
economic power: challenges and opportunities ; 
CEPII – The Long Term Growth Prospects of the World 
Economy: Horizon 2050
• Hindu Business Line:  Inflation over the decades  
dated 08-06-2011Results and conclusions
The application of the three-stage FCFE model results in an 
implied expected market return of approximately 15.2%. It 
is pertinent to note that the implied market return of 15.2% 
is reflective of the expected return on the market index and 
asset/company/sector specific risk adjustments would need to 
considered for specific investments.
Considering the implied expected market return of 15.2% 
in conjunction with the expected  yield of 8.05% on 10-year 
government securities as on 31 December 2012, the implied 
ERP for India is around 7.2%. Considering the daily fluctuations 
in equity market valuations as well as treasury bond yields, the 
current ERP can be considered to be in the 7 to 7.5% range. 
However, the golden rule to remember is that equity risk 
premiums are dynamic and subject to constant change. 
About PwC  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re 
looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more than 
180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, 
tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices 
in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, 
Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC 
network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.
pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Vishnu Giri
Senior Manager –Valuations
Tel: +91 (0) 80 4079 7050
Mobile: +91 (0) 98 4569 1149
Email: vishnu.giri@in.pwc.comContact
www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for 
any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK18 - June 2013 Dissecting India’s Equity Risk Premium.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
