Title: pwc_multichannel-strategy
Date Published: 2013-06-03 10:50:13+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_multichannel-strategy.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Multichannel 
strategy
The right balance 
between customer 
experience and contact 
centre operations
 June 2013

In the increasingly competitive business scenario, 
the end-to-end customer experience and delight has 
become a new area, which no one can afford to neglect.  
It is of paramount importance to deliver superior 
services with differentiated experience, while aligning 
with the ever-changing customer preferences and 
needs. Thus, a multichannel strategy comes into play in 
this information-rich age. 
Leading businesses, today, are harnessing both 
traditional and new service channels (i.e. physical 
outlet, field service, web, mobile, etc.) to cater to both 
the segments of changing demographics across all 
geographies. This is also providing customer access to 
new channels, while enhancing flexibility in delivering 
value to the customer. Customers expect to be treated 
as multichannel buyers, empowered to use the web 
to research information about products, to purchase 
them and negotiate returns through any number 
of outlets. They, typically, examine products more 
than once, through multiple channels. For instance, 
they can research online, view in store, peruse a 
catalogue at home, access a mobile application, and 
then go online to do further research before making 
their purchasing decisions. With these sophisticated 
multichannel strategies, many firms are enjoying 
strong bottom and top line growth in their businesses.  
Companies applying best practices strive to offer a sales 
experience that is uniformly consistent, convenient, 
relevant and responsive to customer needs across all 
channels, to effectively execute demand generation in 
a multichannel environment.The same wave was witnessed at the service part of 
the business value chain, wherein the customer could 
contact the service provider through a variety of service 
channels. The services were then offered in both 
traditional and new service channels (over-the-counter, 
telephony, emails, web portals, chat, co-browsing, 
social media and mobile). These channels were utilised 
by industries extensively for servicing customers of 
different demographics.
Over-the-
counterSocial media, 
self-service and 
kiosksEmail Web
Phone ChatNext generation contact centre
The emergence of new channels has enabled a 
new mix of service channels, which as a package 
can be more efficient.  At the same time they also 
increased the scope of confusion, thus, evolving 
the need of service channel optimisation. Though 
a lot of has been done in this direction, it is too 
early to conclude that the issue of multichannel 
mix optimisation has been fully addressed and 
tackled successfully. These practices still remain in 
the growth stage and significant opportunities lie 
ahead for businesses that can identify and exploit 
them to the fullest.
With time these channels have matured and 
customer behaviour has also become demanding 
towards these services. An unhappy customer 
can air his or her grievances on a company’s 
webpage as well as social media channels. This can 
adversely affect brand value. 
Under these circumstances, an integrated 
customer relationship management (CRM) system 
is required to give a 360-degree view of the 
customer and also provide analytics to optimise 
various service channels. 
Traditional Web-enabled assisted serviceOver-the-counter
Web portalsTelephony
ChatEmail
Co-browsing
Social media
MobileThough expensive and resource-intensive, over-the-counter and telephony are highly 
effective channels and are well-exploited by traditional users. 
Email is an easy, well-understood, and effective service channel, but a lot depends on the 
type of service, as complex service enquiries can lead to multiple email interactions and 
may unnecessarily increase the cost. Email is best used for follow-ups with the customer.  
Web portals have been successful in a few industries, e.g. banking, insurance, telecom, 
etc. They have radically reduced the cost of service. For most standard service 
requests, effective FAQs and guided navigation on portals have been very effective.
While web chat and co-browsing has gained popularity in some industries (e.g. travel 
portals, realty, etc.), it must be used with caution. It is resource-intensive and lacks 
adequate human touch.
The social and mobility channels have great potential is pitched to be the next wave 
of CRM 2.0 (social CRM). This is yet to integrate seamlessly with the legacy CRM to 
enhance customer view.

Evolution of customer 
contact centre
Technology has changed the way organisations manage 
their relationships with their customers. While many may 
argue this new reality, the consumer is increasingly in a 
position of power, as comparison-shopping on a wider-
scale becomes the norm. Currently, a strong relationship 
with the customer is of utmost importance, and the 
modern contact centre can facilitate this. A contact centre 
equips an organisation to create a two-way dialogue with 
their customers. Every ‘contact’ with the customer is an 
opportunity to understand the customer and upsell or 
cross-sell products. The customer interaction over issues 
(positive or negative) are documented and tracked on an 
individual basis, for future action.
Contact centres were established to reduce cost. However, 
given the transfer of power from business organisations 
to the customer, cost reduction with effective customer 
satisfaction has become the priority for business 
organisations. Nevertheless, it became necessary to 
carefully determine which channels are effective at 
meeting the needs of a particular customer. 
Not surprisingly, the amplified use of channels through 
which customers interact with organisations has resulted 
in increased expectations across all channels. The 
customers are not merely satisfied with access to multiple 
channels but are also expecting the same level and quality 
of service across all channels. In addition, due to the 24 
x 7 online accesses of e-commerce businesses customers 
expect similar service from other businesses. The failure 
to offer such a support can act as a trigger to migrate to a 
competitor. The multichannel 
environment
The contact centre has become a key organisational 
stakeholder addressing customer needs, while constantly 
gaining knowledge about customers and influencing 
their perceptions. Its role in delighting customer has 
grown steadily with faster service and its availability 
across multiple touch points. The past decade has 
brought many emerging technological advancements in 
customer relationship management altering customer 
behaviour by equipping them with additional tools to get 
serviced. Businesses were also aware of this change and 
started focussing on listening and engaging customer 
across multiple channels. 
A research by the Aberdeen Group states that a 
multichannel customer care strategy can achieve more 
than twice (9.7% vs 3.9%) year-on-year improvement in 
customer satisfaction, as compared to their peers using a 
single channel. Though this justifies the need to migrate 
towards multichannel contact centres for delivering 
enhanced customer delight, it does not mean that simply 
adding a channel can improve performance results. 
Driving the incremental performance gains through the 
add-on channels requires a well-defined strategy. 
Multiple channels contact centres are the 
organisations which use multiple channels 
(email, OTC, telephony, web chats, 
social networks, etc.) to deliver services 
pertaining to the business.•	Contact centre
•	Live chat
•	Social media
•	Mobility solutions•	Service centre
•	Kiosks
•	Door –to-door service•	Web self -service
•	IVR systems
•	FAQ
Increasing overlap of 
service channels
The concept of multiple channels mix such as field 
services, self-services, and assisted services was 
introduced to target different segments of customers. 
These were targeted towards the elderly population 
and non-tech savvy customers, whereas the self-service 
was targeted at technologically advanced customers to 
reduce cost. The addition of service channels always 
overlaps with the existing channels. 
Key decision parameters for selecting appropriate 
service type
Customer value:  Is the customer worth live assistance 
and/or field service?
Customer capabilities:  Does the customer have access to 
the channel? 
Service complexity:  Is it a complex service issue? If 
so, live assistance and/or field service may prove less 
expensive overall.These overlaps shall always be effectively managed to 
enhance the in-house systems and processes. An analysis 
of key KPI can also help organisations to define the service 
channel mix and gauge channel utilisation. The field 
servicing, self-servicing and assisted servicing channels 
work in tandem and an effective customer service strategy 
includes the option for the customer to switch the mode 
of service as required. Also, multiple factors must be 
considered when deciding the appropriate service mode 
and choice of channel for a customer segment.
The world of any time, any where, and any channel

Self-service
In an effort to gain a competitive edge in the market, 
many companies have implemented self-service 
solutions to deal with business pressures. The two forces 
driving companies to implement this are operating cost 
and competition. Companies are getting their customers 
to do as much as possible on the web, and move away 
from the high cost contact centre. 
The key benefits of self-service include the following: 
1. Cost reduction:  The self-service approach can slash 
the cost of a customer interaction from as much as 
35 USD on the phone to 0.75 USD online (a potential 
savings of 98% percent on just one transaction, 
Forrester Research). 
2. Enhanced adaptability:  It is highly adaptable to 
increase in workload.
3. CRM 2.0:  Integration with social network sites, 
forums and competitor sites can act as feedback and 
works as an efficient marketing tool.
4. Downtime planning:  It works 24x7, 365 days and 
downtimes can be planned. 
5. Multilingual system:  It can support more than one 
language at reduced cost.
6. Device interoperability:  It can be used on more than 
one device such as phones, laptops, PC, mobiles, 
tablets, etc.
7. Build credibility:  It provides better mode of building 
credibility, i.e., awards, affiliations, recognitions, 
forum rankings, visitor counter, testimonies and 
reviews, list of guest or clients, etc.Self-service is a type of electronic support 
that allows customers to access information 
and perform routine tasks over the web, 
without requiring any interaction with a 
representative of an enterprise. It is widely 
used in CRM and employee relationship 
management (ERM).
KPI Definition Benchmarks
Self-service rate Number of visits to the support site that do not result 
in an email, chat, or any assisted online support 
channel into the contact centre >80%
Percentage of positive knowledge base 
responses from customers Percentage of customers that positively responded 
to the question of  ‘was this answer helpful?’ on a 
knowledge base article 30% to 40%
Percentage of returning visitors to the 
support pages New vs returning unique visitors to the support pages More the better 
Percentage of visits from third party 
search to the online support site Visits that originate from search engines such as 
Google or Bing as questions, and end up on the 
support page >30%
Voice of the customer satisfaction data Data from pop-up surveys to visitors on the site that 
ask the question of ‘how satisfied are you with the 
overall support experience?’ Positive data from the surveysKPI of self-service and its benchmarks
Optimisation of service 
channels
A multichannel contact centre operates in complex 
interactive environment. The road towards a dream 
contact centre involves capturing customer feedback to 
find relevant channels, seamless integration of channels 
with existing systems and back-end systems ensuring 
optimal channel performance. 
We propose a four-stage strategy to optimise the service 
channel mix involving analysis and optimisation of 
existing channels, redefining channel strategy and its 
implementation. We aim to generate few savings during 
the second stage and reinvest it as a part of the revised 
strategy for more returns. The direct saving will be in 
terms of improved first call resolution (FCR), increased 
customer satisfaction, reduced cost to serve, reduced 
customer churn and call deflation due to self-service 
channels. The indirect savings will be mainly through 
higher customer knowledge.
The first step involves a thorough analysis of services, 
customer and channels. The key analysis in this step 
involves knowing service characteristics, customer 
segmentation and preferences and channel suitability. 
Once this is established a selection of channels can be 
made. The key factors which drive the selection are the 
volumes, extend of standardisation, service complexity, 
human intervention needs and customer’s propensity to 
self-service.Phone
Web
Email
Social Media 
Chat
CRM
Phone
Survey 
Spee ch Non-Speech Other Keywor ds and topics
Emotion detection
Talk over analysis
Call flow analysis
Web interaction analytics
Keywor ds and topics
Sentiment analysis
Chat response time
Desk top analytics
Customer demographics
Interaction history
Customer feedbackCustomer satisfaction 
Misinformed
Mislead
Frustration level 
Happiness
Percentage of second 
time callersSuite of analytics for different service channels
Many might feel that these solutions are fit for large-scale businesses. Adoption of these 
technologies and practices is not determined by the size but by the organisation’s focus on 
adopting best practices to achieve success through multichannel contact centre initiatives.
Strategic framework 
for service channel mix 
optimisation
The three dimensions of service, channel and customer 
results in optimisation plan for service, thus, redefining 
channel strategy. One of the major activities in this 
whole process is channel integration, as a customer 
these days switches channel even in a single transaction. 
The best solution for this problem will be to generate 
a single view of a customer which gets updated by 
each channel. The problem discussed in one of the 
early examples in this document can be addressed 
only through a single view. Ensuring success of the 
redefined strategy depends on how well the company 
can incentivise its customer to migrate to a more 
efficient and effective service channels. This switching 
not only requires process reengineering and technology 
to execute them, but persuasive tactics to encourage 
people to move, where effective training and change 
management comes into the picture.
Though, technology is the key enabler in this initiative 
to equip agents with ability to manage multichannel 
customer interactions but contact centre analytics 
also help businesses to analyse the effectiveness of 
each channel in increasing customer satisfaction, 
while reducing contact costs. These analytics include 
speech analytics, non-voice analytics and various other 
analytics. Every customer contact gives a lead about 
customer expectations and satisfaction. It is up to the 
level of analytics an organisation deploys for gauging 
these characteristics and then reorienting its channels to 
maximise customer satisfactionAnalysis of ex isting channels
Optimisation of ex isting channels
Redefining channel strategy
Implementing the revised strategyAnalysis of service Analysis of chann el Analysis of customer
Customer 
experience 
improvementRouting 
optimisationChannel  
integration and 
data exchangeIVR optimisation Channel optimisation based 
on customer profitabilit y1
2
4Deployment of IVR, 
CTI, WFM and QMAdvanced CC 
analytics Single 
customer viewChange management 
and training aspectsIncentivising 
channel  
switchingSocial media 
monitoringRoot cause 
analysi s3
Campai gning Incentivising Cross-referring Forcing shifts TrainingRepeated services
Periodic services
Fault services
SOS servicesSegregate customer 
Interactions across channels 
FCR analysi s
Load analysi s
Satisfaction index analysi s
Cross-channel analysi s
Scope for self-help servicesDemographic factors
Switching incentives
Propensity of customer to self-serve
Customer profiling and multi-criteria 
based segmentation for channel  
usage and preference
IVR: Interactive Voice Response
CTI: Customer Telephony Integration
WFM: Workforce Management
QM: Quality Management
About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  
We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who 
are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: 
Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and 
Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit 
www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each 
member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for 
further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
       youtube.com/pwc
www.pwc.in
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the information contained in this publication without obtaining specific professional 
advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents 
accept no liability, and disclaim all responsibility, for the consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in reliance on the information contained in this publication or for any decision based on it. Without prior permission of 
PwCPL, this publication may not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to in any documents.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 490- April 2013 Multichannel Strategy.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
