Title: pwc_building-a-social-enterprise
Date Published: 2013-01-11 13:08:45+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_building-a-social-enterprise.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Building a social 
enterprise
www.pwc.com/india
Customer expectations
Employee expectationsBusiness processes
•	A	‘persistent	digital	engagement’	
lifestyle
•	Permanently	changed	expectations	of	
responsiveness	and	engagement
•	Openness,	transparency,	collaboration
•	New	role	in	decision	making
•	Communicators	to	the	outside	world•	Social	business	strategy
•	New	ways	to	work	with	each	other,	
with	vendors,	and	with	markets
•	Improved	services,	development,	sales	
and	supportChanging the way 
we do business 
and engage with 
markets
Going ‘social’
“Conventional marketing wisdom 
long held that a dissatisfied customer 
tells 10 people. But…in the new age of 
social media, he or she has the tools to 
tell 10 million.”
Paul Gillin, author of The New 
InfluencersSocial	media	is	flourishing.	Leading	
companies	know	that	participation	is	
no	longer	an	option,	but	a	requirement.	
To	ensure	success,	entry	in	social	media	
must	be	a	strategic	decision.	It	requires	
adequate	planning,	resources	and	
support.	While	social	media	should	not	
replace	face-to-face	communication,	
it	can	enhance	the	overall	customer	
experience	and	create	new	sales	
and	servicing	opportunities.	Most	
importantly,	social	media	is	no	longer	
considered	an	emerging	technology	–	it	
has	arrived	and	is	here	to	stay!	While	
most	people	use	social	media	on	a	daily	
basis,	the	challenge	for	organisations	
and	CIOs	is	that	they	may	not	know	
how	to	put	it	to	use	in	the	enterprise.	
Understanding	the	various	applications	of	
social	media	and	how	they	can	be	used	to	
achieve	business	benefits	is	the	first	step.Social	media,	when	done	well,	can	create	
a	collaborative	dialogue	with	a	very	large,	
but	very	specific	audience	–	one	person	
at	a	time.	And,	it’s	successful	because	it	
breaks	down	formal	barriers.
Social	media	provides	an	opportunity	
for	instantaneous	communication	and	
promotes	collaboration	across	functional	
groups	and	geographic	regions.	At	its	
most	powerful,	 it	can	bring	the	full	weight	
of	millions	behind	identified	ideas	and	
actions	–	within	days	–	if	not	hours.
What is social media?
Social media refers to the use of 
mobile and web-based technologies 
to turn one-way communication 
into an interactive dialogue.How is social collaboration 
different from social media?
Social collaboration is the  internal 
use of social networking tools to 
create value by working together on a 
common goal.01
Successful 
companies are 
using social 
networks to 
revolutionise their 
work processes02
3 PwC
How big is social 
media?03
• 1 million of India users added 
to Facebook every week  - at one 
point. >60 million registered. 
•  40% of Indian users made a phone 
call using Skype (three times more 
than US and six times more than 
Japan)
• 1/3rd of India’s social media users 
use microblogging sites such as 
Twitter at least once  a day.
•  >1/2 (57%) of Twitter users in 
India have signed up in the past 
year.
•  60% of internet users are on social 
media.It’s	bigger	than	you	think.
The	speed,	breadth,	depth	and	scope	of	social	media	penetration	
is	astonishing.	It	took	13	years	for	television	to	reach	a	worldwide	
audience	of	50	million.	It	took	Facebook	three	years;	and	just	
another	four	years	to	reach	over	half	a	billion	users	worldwide.
Social	media	presents	a	massive	opportunity	to	better	understand	
and	reach	out	to	consumers	in	real	time.
The	challenge	is	in	finding	patterns	in	the	noise.
By	connecting	directly	with	consumers,	many	companies	are	
finding	that	their	customers	have	great	ideas.
Social	media	is	about	reaching	out	to	employees	as	well.
Nine out of 10 internet users 
visited a social networking 
site each month in 2010.
Consumers are 55% more 
likely to recall ads that include 
social-media components than 
non-social ads.
2011 Nielsen survey
India is the fastest growing 
market for LinkedIn which 
is growing at one user per 
second globally.India added the maximum 
number of users globally 
(close to 1 mn) to 
Facebook last week.Source: PwC Research and Analysis, The data 
is collected from the internet
4 PwC
Defining the key 
benefit areas for 
your business04
90%  consumers trust 
peer recommendations...only 14% trust 
advertisementsPlaying the  digital defence
But	while	social	media	is	positive	towards	brand	-	the	buzz	is	great,	
when	the	commentary	turns	negative,	crisis	management	becomes	
urgent.	Avoiding	the	media	isn’t	an	option.	Companies	need	to	
carefully	engage	and	put	in	place	the	right	people	and	technology	
to	counter	viral	criticism,	if	it	happens.
Also,	consumers	expect	social	media	conversations	to	be	two-way,	
which	means	companies	must	be	prepared	to	both	converse	and	
provide	value	on	a	long-term	basis.
Today,	companies	can	take	their	customers’	virtual	pulse	in	real	
time,	one	on	one.	More	importantly,	they	can	also	respond.
Companies must engage consumers
Globally,	nearly	four	out	of	five	retail	companies	and	more	than	half	
of	consumer	packaged	goods	companies	now	invest	in	social	media.
Product development
Social	media	is	increasingly	used	in		creative	ways	to	develop	
advertising	campaigns	and	can	even	contribute	to	product	
development.
Coca-Cola	asked	its	Facebook	fans	to	choose	new	vitamin	water	
flavours,	while	PepsiCo’s	DEWmocracy	campaign	asks	fans	for	
inputs	on	everything	from	flavour	to	advertising.
Employees
Employees	spreading	the	positive	message	through	their	own	social	
network	can	have	a	far-reaching	impact	on	the	brand	equity	of	
your	company.	Every	one	of	your	employees	can	be	considered	a	
spokesperson	for	the	company.
A little c onsumer 
conversation can make a 
good marketing campaign 
even better.
60%  of CEOs expect 
customers will play a more active 
role in product development.
The number is higher for CPG 
companies. 
PwC’s 13th Annual Global CEO SurveyWith sensible employee 
communications policies, 
your employees can be your 
best brand ambassadors.
5 PwC
Social business 
transformation: 
How you can add 
value to your 
business05
New	forms	of	revenue	
generationPotent	new	products	and	
servicesHigh	engagement	
customer	relationshipSocial business outcomes
Cost	reduction	and	
economies	of	scaleMarket	share	growth	and	
customer	retention
6 PwC
“Creating an 
ecosystem of ideas 
and relationships 
is what social 
media is all about. 
Enterprises need 
to understand this 
concept and how to 
capitalise on it.”
Five reasons to 
take this seriously06
07Business model Defining new opportunities for growth and efficiency using social 
channels
Analytics and insight Enabling real-time business intelligence that can personalise the 
customer experience whilst improving productivity and efficiency
Customer engagement Enabling organisations to design new customer experiences to engage in 
the digital world
Employee and network 
engagement Developing an environment of collaboration and knowledge sharing both 
within the organisation and partner networks
Technology infrastructure and 
securityDefining technology solutions to efficiently support an agile business 
model and digital solutions
Collaboration and social 
media Enabling the management of structured and unstructured knowledge, 
conversations and dialogue
Social co-creation Enabling enterprises to build a platform for stakeholders to collaborate 
and co-create. For instance, customers can have greater engagement 
with the products, processes and services they use.
#1 It’s where your customers are 
gatheringBusiness value of social media (Discuss on the evolution of 
social media, share success stories and initiatives undertaken by 
organisations primarily in retail and consumer industry) 
#2 Conversations about your 
business are happening – with 
or without youImplications and challenges for businesses (Identification of 
potential benefits and likely issues that organisations face while 
embarking on social media)  
#3 Your brand is being 
circumventedSocial media strategy considerations (Factors to be considered 
while developing a social media strategy) 
#4 It’s the world’s largest focus 
groupBalancing between today's and tomorrow's challenges (How social 
media strategy needs to continuously evolve through analytics and 
information advantage) 
#5 It can be the most effective 
way to reach your customersHow PwC can add value (Possible models of engagement with 
you)And	here’s	how	a	strong	social	media	strategy	can	help...
7 PwC
Why is social 
business intelligence 
important?
Social business 
intelligence core 
capabilities08
09Risk Customer experience Competitive intelligence Marketing
A large, international 
oil company’s oil 
spill: even if the 
accident itself was not 
preventable, social 
media intelligence 
could have better 
shaped the response 
and lessened the 
fall-out by immediately 
understanding the 
conversation and 
concerns as they were 
happening in order to 
create the appropriate 
response.A major mobile network 
operator could have 
predicted the backlash 
that came from adding a 
fee to pay online with a 
credit card and avoided 
it altogether with a 
modified approach by 
retrospectively searching 
for similar situations 
amongst competitors 
and understood likely 
complaints.A telecom company 
producing a once 
popular smartphone 
could have looked to 
competitors to overcome 
the continued business 
challenges of the 
declining  market for its 
phone by understanding 
key features and needs 
being discussed by 
competitors’ customers, 
and whether they were 
successful.A film company 
wrote off 200 million 
USD due to worse-
than-expected box 
office performance: 
listening to social 
media could have 
influenced marketing 
by understanding 
demographic 
information, 
preferences, and 
key influencers in 
conversation to target 
effectively.
What Range Benefits Costs
Breadth How much of the web? Top networks-All social-All 
digitalEarly warning, Unexpected insight Time, money, complexity, storage
Depth How much of each 
source?Sampling-Windows-All 
mentionsSample size, weak signal, trending, pattern 
matchingTime, money, complexity, storage
Sourcing How is data harvested? Buy-Curate-Crawl Depth, breadth, weak signal, customisation Time, money, manual intervention
Latency How fast are results 
delivered?Weekly-Daily-Real-time Reaction time, competitive advantage, risk 
mitigation, customer satisfactionComputing power, cost
Tuning How configurable? Query-Refine-Machine 
learningDeep analysis, weak signal, competitive 
advantage, info arbitrageStaffing, expertise, time, money
Action What response is being 
driven?Listen-React-Predict Competitive advantage, risk mitigation, 
customer satisfaction, information arbitrageStaffing, expertise And	here’s	how	a	strong	social	media	strategy	can	help...
In today’s social world, companies 
should listen to the conversation in 
order prepare a cross-functional, 
coordinated response to potential risks 
presented within social media content. An integrated approach to 
social business intelligence can 
mitigate impact to reputation 
or market share when an 
incident occurs.
Identifying KPIs to 
monitor on social 
media10
KPI dimensions: As a service Business benefits /  Value drivers
Product feedback •	Get real-time feedback on the products in a transparent way. Build an opportunity to interact directly with customers.
•	Tap into the communities to listen to frank feedback about products.
•	Gauge the maturity of the people collaborating online to build a business case for actively participating in debates about 
products.
Customer satisfaction / 
complaint analysis•	Identify pain points/ complaints of customers.
•	Social customer service is a great new opportunity to drive satisfaction, build loyalty, and create differentiation among 
competitors. 
•	Understand the potential use of social media in building relations and in understanding the key points for customer satisfaction.
Voice of customer / customer 
intelligence  / co-creation •	Voice of customer analysis to understand how customers feel about the brand / company. 
•	Identify the ‘co-creation hubs’, which are the communities that appeal to both the company and the customers.
•	Gauge the maturity of the people collaborating online to participate in product development / co creation / idea identification.
Campaign monitoring •	Understand the reach of the current campaign in social media.
•	For any new campaign (online or offline) understand its ‘viral’ity in the social world.
•	Identify influencers in the communities for future campaigns–both online and offline.
Competitive intelligence •	Understand the sentiments associated with competitor brands / products.
•	Analyse user-generated content, interactive content, multimedia content  to better understand and communicate with  the TG.
Company brand perception for 
employees / future employees•	Social media is about reaching out to employees as well. Analyse what employees are talking about the company in the social 
media channels.
•	Analyse how the company is perceived as an employer / place to work.
pwc.com/india
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the 
information contained in this publication without obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy 
or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept no liability, 
and disclaim all responsibility, for the consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in reliance on the information contained in this publication or for 
any decision based on it. Without prior permission of PwCPL, this publication may not be quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to in any documents.
© 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 422- November 2012 Building a social enterprise.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
