Title: pwc_corporate-attributes-and-practices-towards-arbitration-in-india
Date Published: 2013-05-15 09:00:21+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_corporate-attributes-and-practices-towards-arbitration-in-india.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

www.pwc.in
Corporate Attitudes & Practices 
towards Arbitration in India
2 PwC

Corporate attitudes and practices        3The growth in domestic and international trade and commerce has 
spurred competition, provided new opportunities and imputed risks.  
Commercial arbitration in India is witnessing a steady transition 
and resolution of domestic and cross border disputes is becoming 
more sophisticated. The survey shows that parties are increasingly 
choosing to resolve disputes away from the courts through arbitration. 
This survey is our pioneer effort at exploring the level of knowledge, 
current practices and perceptions regarding arbitration among 
companies in India.  
In-house counsels are leveraging the advantages offered by this 
mechanism including speed of resolution, flexible processes and 
confidentiality of proceedings while overcoming the hurdles of 
undue delay in proceedings and lack of institutional arbitration 
infrastructure.  The future of arbitration as indicated by the survey 
looks cautiously optimistic owing to several advantages and 
disadvantages that arbitration provides in the Indian landscape.
We are pleased to share the insights from the survey through this 
report and we hope it will provide interesting trends to companies in 
India. 
We are grateful to our respondents consisting of Legal Counsels, Legal 
Heads and Company Secretaries of various companies in India who 
gave their time and thoughts so generously and enthusiastically. 
Vidya Rajarao 
Leader, Forensic ServicesDarshan Patel 
Executive Director, Forensic Services  Foreword
4 PwC

Contents
Dispute Resolution Policy – An effective safeguard 08  
Arbitration vs. Litigation – Pros and Cons  09 
Ad-hoc vs. Institutional Arbitration - An Indian perspective 12
Seat of Arbitration – Does it really matter? 14 
Selection of Arbitrators – The driving factors behind this decision 15 
Effective use of Experts – Choosing the right expert 17 
Future of Arbitration in India – Cautiously optimistic 19

6 PwCArbitration is a leading method for resolving 
disputes arising from commercial agreements and 
other domestic and international relationships. 
The practice of arbitration has developed so as 
to allow parties from different legal and cultural 
backgrounds to resolve their domestic and / or cross 
border disputes, generally away from litigation.
This study presents qualitative and quantitative 
feedback on the use and future of arbitration in 
India, gathered from 70 respondents comprising 
of Legal Counsels, Legal Heads and other legal 
personnel of various companies in India. The survey 
was conducted over ten months, through detailed 
in-person interviews. 
The results of this survey broadly emphasise 
the attitudes and practices adopted by in-house 
counsels in India towards effective resolution of 
domestic as well as cross border disputes. 
Key messages from the study are as follows:
Majority of the companies in India have a 
dispute resolution policy
• 91% of the companies surveyed in India, 
who have a dispute resolution policy, include 
arbitration (not litigation) for resolution of 
future disputes. • 61% of the companies surveyed in India have a 
dispute resolution policy and confirmed inclusion of 
a dispute resolution clause in contracts entered by 
their company. 
• Companies generally indicated a flexible approach 
towards negotiating arbitration clauses. However, 
factors such as law governing the arbitration, seat 
of arbitration and language primarily drive the 
negotiation. 
Arbitration remains a preferred dispute 
resolution mechanism, despite certain 
loopholes and shortcomings in the arbitration 
environment in India
• An overwhelming majority of the companies 
surveyed used arbitration, in isolation or in 
combination with another dispute resolution 
mechanism
• Top three factors that make arbitration the most 
preferred dispute resolution mechanism are: speed, 
flexibility and confidentiality.Executive Summary
Corporate attitudes and practices        7Institutional arbitration is yet to be widely 
used by companies in India  
• Majority of the companies that experienced 
arbitration preferred ad-hoc arbitration (47%) 
over institutional arbitration (40%) while 12% 
indicated a neutral approach. 
• Further, companies with no prior experience of 
arbitration also indicated a preference for ad-
hoc arbitration.
Retired Supreme Court / High Court judges 
are a preferred choice for arbitrators
• Companies with prior experience of arbitration 
preferred retired judges as arbitrators when 
the seat of arbitration is in India and external 
experts for cases where the seat is outside India.
• Top three factors that guide the selection 
of arbitrators are reputation and expertise 
in the relevant industry, knowledge of law 
applicable to the contract / arbitration and prior 
experience in arbitration.Companies in India are yet to fully appreciate 
the tactical significance of the seat of arbitration  
• India, Singapore and England were noted as top 
three seats for arbitration. 
• The choice of seat of arbitration was primarily 
driven by factors such as regional advantage, cost 
effectiveness and advice of solicitors / counsel. 
More companies are using expert evidence in 
arbitration proceedings
• More than half of the companies have used expert 
evidence in arbitration proceedings.
• Industry experts or experts for valuation / 
accounting are typically appointed.
The future of arbitration in India is optimistic
• 82% of the companies with arbitration experience 
indicated that they would continue to use arbitration 
in future disputes.
• 46% of the companies with no arbitration experience 
were also open to using arbitration in future disputes
8 PwC61%  of the companies engaged in 
commercial transactions in India and outside 
have indicated having a dispute resolution 
policy. Companies (36%) that did not have 
a formal dispute resolution policy also 
demonstrated positive signs of including a 
dispute resolution clause in their contracts. 
While drafting a contract, companies surveyed, 
indicated that at a minimum they would include 
preferred law governing the contract (53%) and 
seat of arbitration (49%).
Popularity of arbitration as an alternate dispute 
resolution mechanism is evident as a large 
number of companies are considering arbitration 
over litigation to resolve disputes as part of their 
crystallised dispute resolution policy (91%). 
A dispute resolution policy provides a structured 
approach to resolving disputes, thus providing 
guidance to in-house counsel to efficiently and 
effectively deal with disputes. A qualitative analysis of the responses revealed 
some of the most important benefits of 
maintaining a dispute resolution policy:
• Facilitates discussion regarding the 
availability of important model clauses 
to mitigate potential risks when a dispute 
arises.
• Consistency across departments in the 
company as regards execution of contracts.
• Strategic advantage at the time of contract 
negotiation.
• Guidance for adoption of tiered dispute 
resolution procedures to minimise costs 
associated with dispute escalation. For 
example, in the event of a dispute, there 
are pre-determined levels of escalation 
in the company. This would ensure that 
disputes are addressed in time and by the 
relevant authority. • Appropriate guidance for adoption 
of dispute resolution mechanisms 
proportionate to the value at stake, thereby 
minimising dispute escalation.
• Facilitate dialogue between the legal 
department and the business units in the 
company and thereby enhance awareness of 
the available legal support.
Does your company have a dispute resolution 
policy?
Yes
No
Not sureDispute Resolution Policy – 
An effective safeguard #1
Corporate attitudes and practices        986% of the companies surveyed had prior experience 
of domestic and / or cross border dispute resolution. 
When asked what types of resolution processes they 
have used for domestic / international disputes, 
nearly all respondents (95%) reported using 
arbitration either as a standalone mechanism or in 
combination with other mechanisms (68% used 
litigation, 40% had attempted mediation)1.
1. Categories are not mutually exclusive as certain respondents 
used a combination of the above mentioned dispute resolution 
mechanisms to resolve multiple disputes in the past.Why do most companies seek to avoid litigation? 
Companies conceded to greater familiarity to 
litigation process as opposed to arbitration. 
However, in most developing nations, litigation 
being a time consuming process, companies have 
steered away from using litigation to save time 
especially when large sums of money are locked 
in the dispute. Average time taken from the 
commencement of arbitral proceedings to the award 
is less than three years, according to companies who 
used arbitration.Indicate which of the following dispute resolution mechanisms were used by 
your company*
In your experience, what is the average time an arbitration takes from the 
commencement of the arbitral proceedings till the award is passed?*Arbitration vs. Litigation – 
Pros and Cons#2
*Does not total up to 100% owing to 
 amultiple responses provided by respondents.
 b9% of respondents did not provide an answer to this question.
10 PwCOther concerns that result in litigation being a 
less preferred choice include:
• rigid framework that litigation operates  
in, and
• lack of confidentiality surrounding the 
proceedings.
Companies that had experience in alternate 
forms of dispute resolution (other than 
arbitration) admitted doing so in accordance 
with their organisational policy, particularly 
with respect to disputes relating to low value 
contracts where arbitration would not be a cost 
effective option. Alternatively, they continued 
to follow traditional litigation for previously 
executed contracts that did not provide for 
arbitration in the event of dispute. 
Although majority of the companies opted for 
arbitration (95%) due to various benefits, not 
all had a satisfactory experience:
• The level of dissatisfaction is substantial for 
arbitrations seated in India as compared to 
arbitration seated outside India. What was the reason your company preferred arbitration over some other dispute resolution 
mechanism?
Are you satisfied with arbitration (seat in 
India) as mechanism to resolve disputes? Are you satisfied with arbitration (seat outside 
India) as mechanism to resolve disputes? 
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Mixed experienceSatisfied
Dissatisfied
Mixed experience
Corporate attitudes and practices        11Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Mixed experienceBased on qualitative feedback, the level of 
dissatisfaction may be attributed to the following 
roadblocks that hinder an efficient arbitration 
process in India: 
• Lack of uniformity in the procedures and 
treatment of arbitral awards has been 
an acute problem for parties adopting 
arbitration to resolve disputes. However, 
the recent Supreme Court judgement in the 
Bharat Aluminium2 case may be a breather for 
arbitrations seated outside India.
• The arbitration award should be binding 
without recourse to challenge irrespective of 
the seat of arbitration. There is an immediate 
need for tightening of grounds to challenge 
an award in India. Making an appeal again 
not only escalates the cost and time of 
arbitration proceeding but also makes the 
arbitration proceeding similar to litigation. 
• As there is no prescribed time limit within 
which the arbitration proceeding must 
be completed, it makes arbitration a less 
attractive mechanism for dispute resolution. 
9% of the companies experienced arbitration that lasted more than three (3) years. As 
observed from the qualitative responses, 
duration of more than three years for 
resolving disputes through arbitration was 
a tedious and expensive proposition for the 
parties.  
• Constitution of the arbitral tribunal is a time 
consuming activity and was ranked as the 
top factor that has a bearing on the length 
of the arbitration proceedings, followed 
by exchange of pleadings, discovery and 
inspection of documents and enforcement 
of award. 
• The time and cost of the proceedings is also 
affected significantly when the deficient 
parties take advantage of the loopholes in 
the procedures and the proceedings lack the 
requisite level of professionalism.
• Arbitrators’ fee was among the top three 
factors that companies attributed to the cost 
of the arbitral proceedings.  Other factors 
included solicitors/law firms' and counsel’s 
professional fees.• In case of ad-hoc arbitration in India, there 
is a small club of seasoned arbitrators that 
companies can choose from. This causes 
a delay in the arbitration process due to 
lack of availability of such arbitrators. Such 
administrative hurdles increase the cost of the 
proceedings significantly, making it a more 
expensive proposition as against litigation.
2. http://supremecourtofindia.nic.in/outtoday/ac701905p.pdfThe level of dissatisfaction is 
substantial for arbitrations 
seated in India
12 PwCOne of the reasons cited by the companies for 
choosing arbitration over any other dispute 
resolution mechanism is flexibility of the 
procedure. This factor of flexibility rests in 
adopting either ad-hoc or institutional arbitration. 
Majority of the companies in India that 
experienced arbitration preferred ad-hoc (47%) 
over institutional arbitration (40%). Further, 
companies with no experience of arbitration also 
indicated a preference for ad-hoc arbitration.
It is important to note that companies having 
experience in arbitration indicated constitution 
of the tribunal as one of the top most reasons 
contributing to the length of the arbitration 
proceedings. One of the advantages of adopting 
institutional arbitration is that it provides a 
mechanism and time frame for selection of the 
tribunal. On the other hand the flexibility offered by 
ad-hoc arbitration may lead to a longer time frame 
for constitution of tribunal and other administrative 
procedures. Greater flexibility in procedures may 
not necessarily produce greater efficiency. In developed countries, institutional 
arbitration is a preferred type of arbitration 
owing to presence of a variety of institutions, 
bespoke administration of the proceedings 
offered by such institutions, uniform rules 
and procedures of the institute, absence of 
interference from the country’s legal system 
and arbitration friendly infrastructure 
available in such countries. Which of the following types of arbitrations 
does your company prefer?
Ad-hoc arbitration
Institutional arbitration
NeutralAd-hoc vs. Institutional Arbitration 
- An Indian perspective #3

Corporate attitudes and practices        13
Popularity of Arbitration Institutions
Singapore International Arbitration Centre 
(SIAC) and Industrial Arbitration Court (IAC), 
Singapore, International Chamber of Commerce 
(ICC) and London Court of International 
Arbitration (LCIA), UK were widely opted 
to administer and resolve disputes. While 
choosing an institution, following reasons have 
Which of these arbitral institutions, if any has administered your company’s arbitrations in the past?been rated most significant by companies having 
experience of institutional arbitration: 
• Overall cost and fees,
• Reputation, and
• Neutrality and independence of the institution.
14 PwCWhile companies generally indicated a flexible 
approach towards negotiating arbitration 
clauses, they indicated that the seat of 
arbitration3 (among other factors such as 
law governing the arbitration and language 
followed in the proceedings) would primarily 
drive the negotiation.
In international commercial arbitration, it is of 
foremost importance that parties to a dispute 
agree on the seat of arbitration. Choosing a seat 
of arbitration is crucial for many reasons. 
• It plays a unique role in deciding the law 
governing the arbitration procedure.
• It determines the support or intervention 
that may be received from local courts in the 
course of arbitration.
• It also has a bearing on the process and 
rights relating to enforcement of the 
arbitration award. Participants to this survey were asked to 
indicate their preferred seat of arbitration 
and the top factors that would influence 
their choice. According to the responses, 
regional advantage was ranked as the most 
important consideration in selecting the seat of 
arbitration, followed by cost effectiveness and 
lastly, the advice of solicitors / counsel. 
Consistent with the above results for factors 
influencing the choice of seat of arbitration, 
respondents selected India  as the most 
preferred destination for the obvious advantage 
it offers companies in India; followed by 
Singapore  which is emerging as a promising 
arbitration hub and viewed by many as a cost Seat of Arbitration – Does 
it really matter?#4
Consequently, when drafting an arbitration 
clause in a new contract, it is important to 
consider myriad factors when deciding upon 
the seat, particularly, how the local arbitration 
law of the seat operates and whether the local 
courts are arbitration-friendly. 
effective and neutral venue in comparison to 
London, Paris etc.; and lastly, England  due to 
its long standing reputation as an impartial 
jurisdiction and efficiency of court proceedings. 
Though India is a preferred choice as a seat of 
arbitration, however in practice it is not.
The above results indicate that many in-house 
counsels see the choice of seat as more a matter 
of convenience than of legal significance. 
This further suggests that some do not fully 
appreciate the significance of choosing the right 
seat for international arbitration. Also the 
in-house legal departments might benefit from 
briefings by arbitration specialists on the legal 
consequences and tactical opportunities arising 
from the choice of seat.3. In international commercial arbitration legislation and practices, 
the seat of arbitration usually refers to the place for arbitration, 
where the award is made. The terms “seat” and the “place” of 
arbitration are often used interchangeably. In-house counsels see the 
choice of seat as more a 
matter of convenience than of 
legal significance
Corporate attitudes and practices        15One of the primary advantages of arbitration 
often cited by companies is the ability to choose 
a decision maker with expertise to understand 
the nature of the dispute and resolve it 
effectively and efficiently. In arbitration, parties 
can mutually agree upon who will serve as their 
arbitrator. 
A tribunal that is proactive and skilled 
in resolution of disputes will contribute 
tremendously to managing the arbitration 
in the most cost and time effective manner. 
Because arbitrator selection is pivotal to 
the quality and outcome of the proceeding, 
careful consideration should be given to how 
the arbitrator will be selected, how many are 
needed and their specific qualifications. 
Knowledge of the applicable law and prior 
experience are desirable attributes of an 
international arbitrator. An arbitration 
chairman (or presiding arbitrator) coupled 
with two arbitrators who are specialists in the applicable law / industry ideally constitutes 
a versatile and informed tribunal. Such 
arbitrators are often appointed by respective 
parties to the dispute and the two arbitrators 
jointly appoint the presiding arbitrator / 
chairman who can conduct the process with the 
necessary authority and dignity. The use of a 
sole arbitrator is also a concept that is gradually 
being accepted as a faster and cheaper option in 
comparison to a three member tribunal.
Companies highlighted various factors 
they take into consideration in appointing 
arbitrators. According to the results, companies 
in India primarily look for arbitrators with 
an established reputation in the arbitration 
community along with relevant industry and/or 
regional expertise.In case of arbitration seated in India, companies 
with prior arbitration experience preferred to 
appoint:
• Retired Supreme Court / High Court judges 
(68%), 
• Senior counsel (32%), 
• External experts (30%), 
• Solicitors / law firm partners (19%) and 
• Others (e.g. District Court judges) (2%). Selection of Arbitrators – The 
driving factors behind this decision#5
Retired Supreme Court/
High Court judges are 
preferred as arbitrators
16 PwCWhere the seat of arbitration is outside India, 
companies preferred:
• External experts (39%),
• Solicitors / law firm partners (19%), 
• Senior counsel (23%), and 
• District Court judges and/or 
recommendation from tribunal or group 
counsel (5%). 
Currently nearly two-thirds opt for retired 
Supreme Court or High Court judges as 
arbitrators, however, qualitative feedback 
from the respondents reveals that, arbitration 
proceedings in India are critically affected due to 
lack of availability of a large club of arbitrators 
with requisite industry knowledge coupled with 
necessary professional attitude.
To instil confidence in the arbitration process, 
flexibility of the arbitrator-selection should 
be coupled with important standards for 
independence / neutrality of the arbitrators. 
Consequently, by utilising a method that best 
meets their needs, parties to a business dispute 
can effectively choose an arbitrator who will hear 
their case in an efficient and unbiased manner.Seat outside India
Seat in IndiaWho amongst these is your company’s preferred arbitrator? (Companies who 
experienced arbitration)
Corporate attitudes and practices        17“Expert Witness” is an individual who is 
qualified, because of his or her specialised 
knowledge, skill, training, education, 
and/or experience to provide the court 
(most often including the judge, opposing 
counsel, and any jurors present) with 
a specialised opinion about evidence or 
about a particular ‘fact’ at issue between 
the parties.
Black’s Law DictionaryNearly half the companies that resorted to arbitration 
have never used expert witnesses as part of the 
arbitration proceedings. 
This is not surprising as very often, parties to 
a dispute prefer to use their own employees to 
determine the quantum of damages / losses 
suffered. Companies typically perceive such 
employees as best suited in this role, given 
that they possess intricate knowledge about 
the company and are technically qualified in 
the industry in which the company operates. Additionally, such employees may have been 
involved or are aware of the matter in dispute 
and are conversant with the facts at hand. 
From the company’s perspective, their use 
limits the possibility of leakage of confidential 
information in the public domain, with regard 
to the case and results in cost saving.How often have you used expert evidence in domestic or international arbitrations?Effective use of Experts - 
Choosing the right expert #6
18 PwCHowever, while employees may be proficient 
in understanding the industry and are 
knowledgeable about the company, they 
may lack the unique knack of presenting 
evidence and providing testimony before the 
Arbitral Tribunal as they are inexperienced in 
understanding and dealing with the arbitration 
process. More importantly, employees lack 
independence and objectivity of opinion 
and may not possess the requisite skill or 
competence to compute damages. Accordingly, 
employees are best suited as fact witnesses due 
to their proximity to the issue.
On the other hand, expert witnesses can be 
pivotal in strengthening a case that requires 
fairly complex damage calculations or intricate 
understanding of a particular industry. For 
instance, cases that require the use of valuation 
methodologies such as the Discounted Cash 
Flow (DCF) method, internal rate of return etc. 
would benefit from an expert who is well versed 
with such techniques. Similarly, cases that 
revolve around interpretation and application 
of complex accounting principles as in the case 
of revenue recognition contracts, valuation of 
financial instruments etc. would benefit from an expert who has substantial experience in 
these fields. This can be collaborated with 
responses of the companies who indicated that 
they typically used experts in matters relating 
to valuations (25%), accounting (19%) and 
foreign law (12%); or industry specific experts 
in the field of financial services, construction, 
engineering, oil and gas (41%). 
Having said that, each case must be assessed 
on a stand-alone basis and an assessment of 
whether an expert is needed must be made 
early and in conjunction with the counsel. 
Experts retained early and for a defined 
objective can add tremendous value to the 
arbitral tribunal, counsel and client. 
Selection of the right expert is a battle half won. 
Companies with arbitration experience stated 
the following top 4 considerations in selecting 
an expert: 
1. Experience –  Seasoned experts posses deep 
expertise in the respective field along with 
the requisite ability of presenting evidence 
before an arbitral tribunal. Thus, experience 
should undoubtedly be an important 
criterion in selection of an expert. 2. Reputation –  Reputation of an expert 
witness must necessarily be one of integrity 
and honesty. The conduct of the expert 
witness before the tribunal can add 
credibility or discredit a previously written 
report. Among other aspects, an expert 
witness’ reputation will be governed by his / 
her ability to present material and opinions 
clearly and in a style that fits the arbitral 
system.
3. Prior relationship with Experts –  While 
prior relationship with the expert may lend 
a degree of comfort to the appointing party, 
it is important that the expert is viewed 
by the tribunal as independent from the 
counsel, client and facts of the case. 
4. Cost –  Cost of retaining an expert should be 
viewed in light of potential benefits to the 
case at hand. Companies assigned equal 
importance to their relationship with the 
expert and cost considerations in retaining 
an expert.
Expert witnesses can help in 
strengthening a case that requires 
complex damage calculation with 
understanding of the industry
Corporate attitudes and practices        19
Majority of the companies surveyed believe 
that the arbitration scenario in India looks 
optimistic (43% have explicitly mentioned that 
the scenario of arbitration in India looks either 
optimistic or very optimistic). Accordingly, of 
the companies with arbitration experience, 
82% indicated that they would continue to 
use arbitration in the case of future disputes. 
Further, of the remaining respondents with no 
experience of arbitration, 46% were willing to 
use arbitration in the future.  
It has already been established that an 
overwhelming majority of corporations in 
India are opting for arbitration closely followed 
by litigation. However, the dissatisfaction 
associated with resolving disputes when seat of 
arbitration is in India cannot be ignored. 
In India, change is contemplated and the Law 
Ministry has proposed its recommendations 
to amend the legislation. Domestic or 
international arbitration will be a sought after option for companies in India with such positive 
steps taken by the industry and the Government 
together. A qualitative analysis of the challenges 
faced by companies and their learning from 
the arbitration process suggests following two 
critical points that will contribute in shaping 
the future of arbitration in India;  
• Need for a robust institutional arbitration 
infrastructure to overcome a significant 
challenge relating to selection and 
availability of arbitrators and subsequent 
time and cost of the proceedings; and
• Realising the tactical benefits of seat of 
arbitration.Future of Arbitration in India 
- Cautiously optimistic#7
82%  companies would 
continue to use arbitration 
even in future disputes despite 
the challenges
In-person interviews were conducted with 70 companies and 
their Legal Counsels, Legal Heads and other legal personnel 
to obtain their quantitative and qualitative feedback on the 
arbitration landscape.Respondent’s Designation Count Percentage
General Counsel / Deputy General Counsel 32 46%
Other (Legal & Company Secretarial) 25 36%
Legal Officer 13 19%
Total 70 100%
No. of Countries that the Respondent’s comapny has 
operations in Count Percentage
More than 20 28 40%
2 to 10 21 30%
1 13 19%
11 to 20 8 11%
Total 70 100%
Nature of cross border activity that the company engages in (multiple 
responses) Count Percentage
Export of good/services to third parties 32 46%
Import of goods and services from third parties 28 40%
Overseas branch/sales offices 25 36%
Others (Joint Venture, Intellectual Property, Private Equity & Offshore 
Advisors, Engineering, Advisory services, Distribution facilities, 
Reinsurance, Shared Services etc.)20 29%
Overseas manufacturing facilities 18 26%
Overseas financing 10 14%Industry Sector (multiple responses) Count Percentage
Financial Services & Banking 16 23%
Information Technology 11 16%
Pharmaceuticals 10 14%
Construction / Engineering/Real estate 10 14%
Energy and Oil & Gas 8 11%
Manufacturing 6 9%
FMCG & Consumer durables 3 4%
Media & Entertainment 3 4%
Shipping/Maritime 2 3%
Telecommunications 2 3%
Retail & Consumer 2 3%
Hospitality & Leisure 2 3%
Aerospace & Defence 2 3%
Transport & Logistics 2 3%
BPO & Shared Services 2 1%Methodology
Corporate attitudes and practices        21
PwC would like to thank the various companies who 
participated in this survey through their counsel and 
other legal representatives, as well as Sushma Nagaraj 
(Advocate) who offered her pro bono support towards 
drafting of the survey questionnaire. 
The Editorial Team for this whitepaper consisted of the 
following individuals:
Vidya Rajarao
India Leader, Forensic Services, PwC 
Darshan Patel
Executive Director, Forensic Services, PwC
Ankita Chawla
Assistant Manager, Forensic Services, PwC
Divya Rishi
Associate, Marketing - Forensic Services, PwC 
Particular thanks in compiling this guide are also due to the 
following individuals at PwC:
Shrinil Ruparelia
Assistant Manager, Forensic Services
Poonam Sanghavi
Associate, Forensic Services
Abhishek Kakar
Brand & CommunicationsAcknowledgement
No company enters into an agreement with 
another entity expecting to become embroiled in 
disagreements. But disputes do happen. Complex 
dispute matters require the insight and experience 
of individuals who understand how to interpret 
companies’ books, records and financial documents. 
PwC professionals provide business and financial 
advice to lawyers and their clients in matters that 
represent some form of crisis or dispute. Our work 
often leads us to provide expert testimony before the 
arbitration panel or at the civil court. Our professionals 
have deep experience in:
• Quantification of damages
• Expert witness testimony
• Accounting and Statistical analysis
• Delay claim analysis in construction disputes
• Forensic technology (digital data collection  
and analysis)PwC Forensic Services provides a national and global 
network of analysts, actuaries, accountants, fraud 
examiners, and others who are leaders in their respective 
fields, offering a wide variety of skills to address the issues 
affecting parties. Our aim is to work in partnership with 
clients to implement fraud control methodologies, assist 
when incidents occur and to help with strategies and 
practices to reduce the risk of falling victim to fraud. We are 
able to work discreetly and use a range of different skills to 
assist our clients with their needs. This approach includes 
the use of experienced investigators, forensic accountants, 
computer forensic specialists and background researchers.
The team combines proven evidence gathering skills with 
control methodologies to produce effective results for our 
clients. Through our team of trained specialists we are also 
able to offer a complete computer forensic service as well as 
test and advise on a range of technical IT security issues.PwC Dispute Analysis Services PwC Forensic Services
Corporate attitudes and practices        23Vidya Rajarao
India Leader, Forensic Services 
Tel: +91 (80) 4079 7002
vidya.rajarao@in.pwc.com
Darshan Patel
Executive Director, Forensic Services
Tel: +91 (22) 6689 1670
darshan.patel@in.pwc.com
Kunal R Gupta
Associate Director, Forensic Services
Tel: +91 (124) 330 6036
kunal.r.gupta@in.pwc.com
Sanganagouda Dhawalgi
Associate Director, Forensic Services
Tel: +91 (80) 4079 7023
sanganagouda.dhawalgi@in.pwc.com
Raman Narasimhan
Senior Manager, Forensic Services
Tel: +91 (44) 4228 5049
raman.narasimhan@in.pwc.comPwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value 
they’re looking for. We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to 
delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, 
having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi 
NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more 
information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit 
www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the 
PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. 
Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
       youtube.com/pwcAbout PwC
Contacts
www.pwc.in
This publication has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act 
upon the information contained in this publication without obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is 
given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this publication, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwCPL, its members, 
employees and agents accept no liability, and disclaim all responsibility, for the consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in 
reliance on the information contained in this publication or for any decision based on it. Without prior permission of PwCPL, this publication may not be 
quoted in whole or in part or otherwise referred to in any documents.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a 
limited liability company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a 
separate legal entity.
AK492- May 2013 Corporate Attitudes & Practices.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
