Title: pwc_connected-life-the-next-five-years-in-asia
Date Published: 2013-06-28 09:47:46+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_connected-life-the-next-five-years-in-asia.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

www.pwc.in
June 2013
China: mAutomotive  05 | India: Smart Cities  08 | Japan: mHealth  11 | South 
Korea: mEducation  14 | Methodology  17 | References  18
Connected Life
The next five years in Asia
2 PwCShashank Tripathi
India Leader, Strategy and Research, PwCMohammad Chowdhury
India Leader, Telecom, PwCForeword
Asia is witnessing a significant technological shift with the proliferation of connected mobile devices. With 
the growing affordability of mobile devices and the widespread roll-out of 3G and 4G technologies, it is only 
natural that a Connected Life enabled by machine-to-machine technologies (M2M) is the next big frontier of 
growth and innovation.
We believe that the pervasive nature of the Connected Life will have far-reaching socio-economic impact, often 
leapfrogging old approaches. In this report, we have tried to explore four such high-impact ‘mXtensions’ that 
could positively benefit China, India, Japan and South Korea over the next five years.
We have explored trends and needs emerging from these countries and how mobile technologies can help 
address them. The overall theme that emerged was that in a continent that holds the majority of the world’s 
population, these technologies have a direct and positive impact on human wellbeing. Whether it is reducing 
the cost of elderly care or education, easing traffic congestion, or preventing power theft, mobile technologies 
are helping us move towards a better, more humane and efficient society.
The GSMA and various stakeholders around the world have provided valuable inputs for this report. A number 
of additional data sources and subject matter experts were consulted too. We aim to generate a dialogue among 
policy-makers within the government, civil society, corporations and individuals on the implications and 
possibilities of the Connected Life. Foreword by GSMA
This report was commissioned by the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programme
Connected life          3Executive Summary – The Impact of the Connected Life
 Asia to be the most connected region by 2020.
“The mobile industry continues to develop at an unprecedented pace and nowhere is this more evident than in Asia, a 
region that continues to experience tremendous growth and by 2020 will lead the connected devices and M2M market, 
both in terms of the number of devices as well as revenues,” says Michael O’Hara, Chief Marketing Officer, GSMA.
In Asia, this wave of mobile growth will enable key socioeconomic advancements. By 2017, mobile will have the power 
to add up to 22 billion USD in economic productivity in China by reducing traffic congestion.
• The introduction of mobile vehicle telematics could significantly reduce traffic by reporting critical data such as 
location, driving speed and direction headed and help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly two hours each of their time 
every week.
• Time saved by reducing traffic will help add as much as 22 billion USD of economic productivity.
• Reducing congestion is a key challenge with 106 million people in the 10 biggest cities in China expected to spend over 
80 minutes commuting per day.
By 2017, mobile will have the power to help power 10 million homes in India by cutting power theft and improving 
efficiency.
• Installing smart meters in India could save enough electricity to power more than 10 million homes by 2017.
• India loses 24% of the electricity it generates every year, costing the country 17 billion USD and power theft accounts 
for around half of this loss.
• Mobile enabled smart meters provide the wireless connectivity that allows utilities to detect and record theft as well as 
help users optimise consumption.
By 2017, mobile will have the power to save 10 billion USD in healthcare costs in Japan.
• The adoption of mobile technologies for remote monitoring, disease management, and preventive medicine for the 
elderly could reduce Japan’s healthcare spend by 10 billion USD in 2017.
• By 2017, almost 28% of the Japanese population is expected to be over 65 years old. 
• mHealth services for the elderly could result in sufficient savings to cover the medical expenses of one million senior 
citizens each year.
By 2017, mobile will have the power to reduce education costs for students in South Korea by up to 12,000 USD.
• Technology-enhanced learning, including a major contribution from mobile, could save South Korean families between 
8,000 to 12,000 USD over their children’s school lives by complementing traditional after-school private classes.
• In 2012, South Korean parents spent around 17.5 billion USD, or 1.5% of GDP, on private after-school education.
• Replacing private English and Mathematics classes with technology-enhanced learning for the equivalent of two days of 
tuition sessions a week could help South Korean students and their families save enough to cover half the cost of their 
higher education tuition.
“Beyond connectivity, mobile operators will play a crucial role in working together with a range of industry partners 
in health, automotive, education, smart cities and a range of vertical industries to accelerate the launch of valuable 
connected services,” says Ana Tavares Lattibeaudiere, Head of Connected Living, GSMA.
4 PwC2 hours a week 
for every 
commuterChina
India
JapanAsia: The difference the Connected Life could 
make in five years
South KoreaPower to 10 
million homes
10 billion USD 
saved annuallyTime saved commuting 
by reducing traffic congestion
47 billion kilowatt-hours saved by 
reducing power theft and improving 
usage efficiency
Equivalent to the healthcare 
costs of a million senior citizens
8,000 to 
12,000 USD 
Potential savings in after-school private 
education over a student’s lifetime
Connected life          5
The number of cars in China may surpass 200 million 
by 2020
China’s strong economic development over the last decade and its burgeoning 
middle class has created a very high demand for automobiles, unlike any 
other country in the world. The Chinese automotive market is now the biggest 
in the world. According to the Ministry of Public Security, car ownership had 
reached 120 million in 2012.
The growth in infrastructure will struggle to keep up with urban migration 
and the growth in consumer wealth. Even though China has developed 
639,000 km of new roads in the past five years, the infrastructure is still 
struggling to contain the surge in traffic or ‘jiāo tōng du sai’ . An example of 
this is the ‘China National Highway 110’ traffic jam that occurred in 2010. 
This traffic jam spanned over a 100 kilometres, lasted over 10 days and is 
considered to be the longest traffic jam in history. This was a highway where 
traffic had increased by 40% every year, while the roads themselves could 
only be widened to a limited extent.
Today, the average urban commute (both to and from work) in the biggest 
Chinese cities is already in the range of 80 minutes a day. The OECD estimates 
that between now and 2030, an additional 300 million rural Chinese will 
migrate to the cities, thereby exacerbating the demand on infrastructure. The 
Chinese government has taken this to be a serious challenge stating that it will 
support the development of eco-friendly urban transport networks, offering a 
wide range of tax breaks and fuel subsidies for mass transit.
Vehicle telematics could help address traffic congestion 
in Chinese cities
It is estimated that between 20% and 25% of commute time in China is 
spent in delays simply due to traffic jams. According to a 2009 study by the 
China-based Horizon Research Consultancy Group, in cities such as Beijing, 
the economic losses per person due to traffic congestion was in the range 
of 54 USD a month. The results of another study released by IBM in 2011 
indicate that over 85% of respondents in Beijing and Shenzhen stated that 
traffic was a key inhibitor to work or school performance. These are cities 
where the Chinese government is investing heavily in infrastructure to ease 
commuter burden. This enhancement of infrastructure requires the infusion 
of additional intelligence such as telematics and smart traffic management to 
maximise benefits to commuters. 
The introduction of vehicle telematics could reduce traffic congestion and 
related economic losses by enabling every vehicle to function as a traffic 
probe and anonymously report critical data such as location, driving speed 
and direction headed. Technologies such as big data analytics and cloud 
computing will enable the aggregation of this data and offer real-time, as well 
as predictive, traffic solutions. These intelligent navigation systems will go ChinaChapter 1Traffic telematics could help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly 
two hours each of their time every week
Estimates indicate the economic benefits of the resulting increase 
in productivity could add over 20 billion USD to the Chinese GDP 
each year.
6 PwCbeyond conventional GPS systems in that they will constantly make adjustments 
to driver routes by judging real-time conditions at all points of the route. We 
estimate that the implementation of vehicle telematics in the 10 largest Chinese 
cities could potentially save drivers up to 20 minutes a day1. When we consider 
the fact that these cities house over 76 million people of working age, the 
amount of productive hours reclaimed could translate to economic gains of 
around 22 billion USD by 20172.
Roll-outs of successful vehicle telematics pilots are 
already taking place across the globe 
Within China, global auto players such as BMW, Ford, GM, and Toyota are 
already offering vehicle telematics services. Most local manufacturers are 
expected to launch such services in the near future as well. Additionally, there 
are a wide range of third party players entering this space to provide telematics 
add-ons to existing car owners.  
Cisco estimates that vehicle telematics can reduce time wasted in traffic 
congestion by 7.5% and lower costs for vehicle fuel, repairs and insurance by 
4%. A 2012 study conducted by MIT, Central South University in China, the 
University of California at Berkeley and the Austrian Institute of Technology 
demonstrated that cancelling the trips of a select 1% of drivers from specific 
neighbourhoods based on data gathered from mobile phones can reduce travel 
times for other drivers by as much as 18%. 
A number of European telematics pilots already indicate the potential that can 
be achieved in China: 
• Turin (Italy): 20% reduction in travel time for private cars and 19% 
reduction for public transport. 
• Paris (France): A prediction tool using vehicle telematics provided 94% 
accurate urban traffic forecasts. 
• Helsinki (Finland), Gothenburg (Sweden), Scotland (UK), Eurodelta 
(Netherlands), Paris and Ile de France (France) and Bavaria (Germany): 
70% of test users were satisfied with vehicle telematics devices which helped 
them with travel and traffic information enabling easy access to information 
and improved decision-making. 
1. The overall impact on commute times has been calculated by considering the impact of connected cars in 
the city. The impact of strategic reduction of drivers from critical neighborhoods and benefits achieved from 
carpooling, etc is expected to reduce commute times via public transit proportionally. Estimates indicate 
that the overall impact of commute time reduction can range from 25%-33% in 2017.
2. Economic gains estimates have been adjusted downwards with an adjustment factor of 20 -25% per city 
to account for commuters using railway and transit networks. Estimates do not include savings in fuel 
consumption and maintenance costs.

Connected life          713 mn 
cars on the road13.6 mn  
cars sold in one year
+ =120 mn cars 
on the road today165 mn 
cars expected
718 mn 
107 mn The 10 largest 
Chinese cities...
mAutomotive will help each commuter save...Over 80 
minutes a day805 mn 87 mn 
people live in urban 
centres today
people will live in the ten 
largest cities
will be spent commuting per person
through 
reduced 
commute timeaddition to 
annual economic 
productivityurban residents by 2017 rural people are 
expected to migrate 
to urban centers2003 2009 2012 2017
In 15.5 mn
Privately owned cars
$2 hours
weeklyx 76 mn 
commuters22 
bn=China is the largest automotive market in the worldmAutomotive in China
8 PwCChapter 2
India’s transmission and distribution losses are among 
the highest in the world at 24%. The majority of these can 
be directly attributed to power theft 
The rapid growth of the Indian economy has created a surge in demand for 
electricity that cannot be met by the existing power situation. As recently as 
2011, 15% of those with access to electricity were still suffering power outages 
regularly. This supply-demand disparity is likely to worsen, considering that 
while the GDP grew at an average of 8% over the last five years, annual capacity 
addition of power was only around 6.8%. 
The magnitude of stress that this puts on existing power infrastructure can be 
seen from the fact that in July 2012, India’s blackout was the largest power 
outage in history and affected over 620 million people (nearly a tenth of the 
world’s population), spreading across 22 states.
According to the Ministry of Power, India’s  Transmission and Distribution losses 
stand at 24%  and it is estimated that these losses cost the country over 17 billion 
USD every year (i.e.) 1.5% of India’s GDP. Fortunately, technical losses within 
transmission and distribution only represent a third of the total power losses 
across India. The remaining two thirds of the losses, a majority of which is power 
theft, can be reduced without major infrastructure changes.
Mobile enabled smart meters can help reduce power theft 
without overhauling existing infrastructure
The theft of power or ‘kundi’  as it is called in some parts of the county is an 
unfortunate practice which is so common that even police officials have been 
caught stealing power for personal purposes. While power theft can occur in 
many ways, such as via the tapping of power lines, tampering or slowing down of 
meters, or bribery, the common element continues to remain human.  
Mobile enabled smart meters dissuade consumers from stealing power by letting 
them know that the utility has the tools to detect and record theft. In conjunction 
with analytics tools, unusual activity such as meter bypassing or the tapping of 
live wires can be easily tracked as mobile enabled smart meters provide them 
with widespread real-time visibility of consumption and distribution points. 
Mobile enabled smart meters are highly tamper-resistant as they are able to 
alert utility providers almost instantaneously during unauthorised access. 
Additionally, their built-in mobile connectivity allows them to circumvent  
the need for meter reading staff and therefore eliminates issues such as bribery 
and intimidation.
IndiaReducing power theft and increasing usage efficiency via mobile 
enabled smart meters could save enough electricity in India to 
power more than 10 million homes.
Power theft alone contributes to over half of India’s electricity losses and 
costs the nation between 8 billion to 9 billion USD every year. Mobile 
enabled smart meters are expected to be the most critical element in 
bringing down these losses over the next five years.
Connected life          9Mobile enabled smart meters are cheap and easy to install as independent 
modules that sit atop existing meters. Besides helping utilities reduce power 
theft, they help consumers optimise their usage by providing regular updates on 
their energy consumption patterns and associated costs. The Indian government 
plans to deploy smart meters for all new connections by 2017. Based on the 
government’s stated objectives and expected rollout, we estimate that all these 
smart meters would be mobile enabled and could save upto 4.5%3 of total 
electricity consumed by reducing power theft as well as consumption.
The government as well as private players are pushing 
for the adoption of mobile enabled smart meters
• In May 2010, the Ministry of Power launched the ‘India Smart Grid Forum’ 
roadmap outlining the roll-out of a smart grid throughout the country. 
It shortlisted 14 pilot smart grid projects that will cover close to 300,000 
high usage, industrial and residential customers who account for 2% of the 
total energy consumption in the country. The key focus areas of the project 
include the reduction of both technical as well power theft related losses.
• The Restructured Accelerated Power Development and Reforms Programme 
(R-APDRP) was launched by the Indian government with the objective 
of reducing network losses to 15% (a number that requires at least 
halving power theft). Bharti Airtel, an Indian telecom service provider, is 
implementing mobile enabled smart meters across three Indian states using 
M2M technology in partnership with the R-APDRP programme.
• The North Delhi Power Ltd (NDPL) in partnership with GE has initiated a 
pilot project involving the installation of mobile enabled smart meters in 
500 households across selected areas in Delhi. The aim is to help the utility 
provider reduce power outages and increase reliability.
3. The year 2017’s supply and demand estimates have been calculated based on the following assumptions: 
The state-wise per capita electricity consumption is expected to grow based on published government 
estimates.The components of T&D losses will remain constant and the actual losses will reduce for all 
states and union territories in accordance with the Planning Commission’s estimates over the next five 
years. Average household size of each of the states will not change considerably over the next five years.

10 PwC$ $$
$$
$$
$$
$$
$$ $$ $
$$ $ $
$ $$ $
$$of electricity is lost 
every yearis the economic 
cost of these lossesof these losses are due 
to power theft
How does power theft 
happen?
Directly tapping power lines
Mobile enabled smart 
maters can reduce power 
theft and improve energy 
efficiency
• Tamper-resistant
• Real time visibility  
for utilities
• Consumer education  
on usage habits
• No need for meter  
reading staffMeter tampering
Bribery24% 
10 mn 17 bn USD 1/2 
Indian households can be powered from mobile 
enabled smart meter energy savings in 2017Mobile enabled smart meters in India
Note : Numbers indicate households per state$
Connected life          11By 2017, almost 28% of the Japanese population is 
expected to be over 65 years old 
According to Statistics Japan, the number of people aged 65 and above 
increased from 25.6 million in 2005 to nearly 29.8 million in 2011. By 2025, 
nearly one in three Japanese will be over the age of 65. 
Two reasons for this rapid shift in demographics, referred to locally as  
‘kōreikashakai’ , are that fertility rates are at a record low and life expectancy 
of the Japanese population (men: 79 years, women: 84.2) is one of the 
highest in the world. 
Despite the Japanese elderly being among the healthiest in the world, they 
still pose serious challenges to sustainable Japanese healthcare, with over half 
of Japan’s annual healthcare spend of 540 billion USD being allocated to the 
elderly. This number is expected to increase by around 4 to 5% each year. 
The frequency and duration of hospital visits accounts for these high costs. 
The average length of stay for inpatient care is 32 days (two to three times 
that of patients in other developed countries) and this rises sharply to around 
45 days in case of senior citizens. Additionally, the average Japanese person 
visits a physician between 13 to 14 times a year and this rises considerably 
for seniors.  As a result, healthcare expenses for people over the age of 75 
typically tend to be 4.6 times more than their younger counterparts.
Remote patient management could be a cost-effective 
alternative for ageing patients to manage chronic 
conditions while staying at home
Inpatient and outpatient costs account for 77% of total healthcare spend 
in Japan, with chronic conditions accounting for 80% of fatalities. 
According to the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, elderly 
patients accounted for 46% of outpatients and 68% of inpatients in 2010.  
Additionally, the average length of each stay for long-term care patients is 
nearly 176 nights.
mHealth can play a significant role in relieving the strain on Japanese 
healthcare as it provides a unique set of benefits. mHealth based services 
such as remote patient monitoring and management can reduce the need and 
duration of hospital stays post medical procedures. Mobile enabled disease 
management tools are relatively simple to implement and are particularly 
effective in treating long-term conditions as they tend to help improve 
adherence and self-evaluation. This is especially relevant in the case of the 
elderly population where chronic conditions tend to be easy to recognise, 
track and treat, given good patient adherence.JapanChapter 3Adoption of mHealth for elderly care in Japan could result in  
savings equivalent to the medical expenses of 1 million senior  
citizens each year
The use of mobile technologies for remote monitoring, disease  
management, and preventive medicine for the elderly could reduce  
Japan’s healthcare spend by 10 billion USD in 2017

12 PwCBesides the obvious benefits, mHealth has notable applications in optimising the 
storage and recovery of medical records and can help reduce administrative costs 
as well as processing times. With continuous monitoring and early diagnosis, 
mHealth could reduce re-admission rates substantially. Even with an adoption 
rate of only 20% by  2017, savings enabled by mHealth could be as much as 10 
billion USD per annum4, sufficient to cover the cost of treating 1 million senior 
citizens each year.
A range of studies and pilots support the benefits of 
mHealth   
• One of the most widely cited studies on mHealth by Meyers, Kobb and Ryan 
reports that an adoption of technology enabled remote care can lead to a 40% 
reduction in emergency room visits, a 63% reduction in hospital admissions 
and a 60% reduction in hospital bed days of care.
• Since 2012, NTT Docomo and Omron Healthcare have teamed up to provide 
wireless access to various Omron devices. These include blood-pressure 
cuffs, sleep monitors and body composition scales that support remote health 
management. This follows NTT Docomo and Fujitsu’s 2009 line of  ‘RakuRaku’  
phones for seniors that worked with Omron medical devices.
• Qualcomm in partnership with Medical Platform Asia (MedPA), has provided 
300 3G enabled medical devices as part of their Wireless Reach™ initiative to 
allow Japanese remote local residents to send critical health information to 
doctors through a 3G wireless network. These devices track information such 
as blood pressure, weight and distance walked and shares it with participating 
physicians. 
• Scotland is witnessing a shift in its demographic that is similar to Japan where 
over 20% of the population now belongs to the senior citizen category. An 
evaluation of 32 pilots funded by the Telecare Development Plan (TDP) across 
Scotland reported savings of 17.8 million USD due to reduced admissions to 
care homes, a fall in unplanned admissions in hospitals, quicker discharges 
from hospital and fewer home check visits. Overall, it was found that the 
telecare service could generate elderly care savings of about 25%.
• A global study by the Telenor Group has indicated the potential of mHealth for 
reducing elderly care cost by 25%.
4. In order to arrive at the estimated impact of mHealth, we have made the following assumptions:  The per 
capita spend on the elderly, as a ratio of the national average remains constant over the next five years,. 
The proportion of health care spends based on conditions and functions do not change considerably over 
the next five years. The reduction in healthcare costs based on pilots conducted in various OECD nations 
can be replicated in Japan. Strength of evidence of each pilot has been taken into consideration to scale 
down cost reduction estimates by a range of 25 to 50 %.

Connected life          13Japanese will be over the age of 65 by 2025
On average, senior citizens spend almost 
5 times as much money on healthcare as 
compared to their younger counterparts1 in 
every 3  
51%
10 bn 
USD78%
84.2 yearsAverage life expectancy
79 years$ x 4.6 $ 
of Japanese healthcare is spent 
on senior citizens
can be saved 
through mHealth 
for elderly care 
in 2017of elderly care is spent on inpatient 
and outpatient care
COPD: 
Pulmonary
6.7 bn  USD
2.7 bn USDCHF: 
CardiacDiabetesChronic 
wound Digestive Musculoskeletal Nervous
17%
8%42%
49%4%
6%21%
7%4%
12%3%
17%10%
2%Outpatient47%
31%3%15%5%Inpatient
Outpati entDentalPharma
cy Disp
ensing
Ot
he
r admi
nmHealth for elderly care in Japan
Potential 
Outpatient 
savingsPotential 
Inpatient 
savings
14 PwC
South Korea 
According to Statistics Korea, South Korean parents 
spent around 17.5 billion USD or 1.5% of GDP, on 
private, after-school education in 2012
In a country known to produce among the best students in the world, and where 
education is viewed as being crucial for success, competition is fierce. Outside 
school hours, an overwhelming majority (around 70%) of children attend 
supplementary, private classes. These after-hours schools, known as ‘hagwons’, 
charge around 2,550 USD a year and can typically run for up to three to five 
hours a day, six days a week. 
The average spend on education in South Korea can range from 9 to 17% of 
household income, often more than spend on basic necessities such as food and 
beverages (which account for around 12 to 13%). This high cost of education 
can have a knock-on effect. Today it is considered to be a major contributor to 
the steep drop in fertility rates in the country. The average number of births 
per woman in South Korea is about 1.2, so low that by 2050 nearly 45% of 
the population could be senior citizens. The government recognises this and 
has taken steps to offer after-school programmes, providing additional classes 
and extracurricular activities to students, and has set aside 1.5 billion USD to 
provide parents with free child care up to the age of five.
Technology enhanced learning could save these families 
between 8,000 to 12,000 USD on private tuition for each 
child
English and Mathematics are the two subjects on which parents spend the most, 
as much as 65% of total spend on private tuition. Annually, this amounts to 
around 1700 USD outside of regular school. Despite government initiatives, the 
demand for these classes appears to be increasing. Over the last five years, the 
cost of these classes has gone up at a rate above South Korea’s average annual 
inflation which is less than 3% (an increase of over 3% for English and 6% for 
Mathematics, each year).  
Our February 2013 report ‘The impact of the Connected Life’ over the next five 
years indicated that the adoption of technology enhanced learning (both online 
and via mobile) could reduce the cost of education by as much as 80%. In some 
cases, this number could be even higher when we include transportation related 
savings. South Korea is uniquely placed to promote mainstream digital learning 
amongst younger students considering that by 2012 nearly 90% of South 
Koreans between the age of 12 to 29 had smartphones. The usage of these smart 
phones is high with three out of five smartphone users spending more than two 
hours a day on these devices. Additionally, the penetration of tablets nearly 
doubled to touch 7.5% in just one year and this number is expected to grow 
steeply in the near future.Chapter 4Technology enhanced learning (including mobile) could save South 
Korean families between 8,000 to 12,000 USD on private tuition for 
their children.
The use of Technology enhanced learning (including mobile) to complement 
traditional after-school private classes could help Korean students save 
enough to cover half their university or higher education tuition.

Connected life          15
If students were able to replace two of the six days5 they go for these extra 
classes with technology enhanced learning, they could save around 8,000 
to 12,000 USD over their school lives6. The savings could be as high as 
14,000 USD if students attend compulsory military service for 2 to 3 years 
before entering higher education7. South Korea has the third highest average 
university or higher education fees among OECD countries, with annual 
average tuition costing up to 7,000 USD. Savings from the adoption of 
technology-enhanced learning could halve this tuition burden.
Mobile initiatives are already being rolled out across the 
globe to provide access to technology-enhanced learning
• In 2011, South Korean (SK) Telecom launched the T Smart Learning Service 
which is a mobile education platform that offers interactive education and 
enables students to create a ‘smart learning’ environment. Additionally, the 
service allows downloading and sharing of educational content and lets 
parents track their children’s academic performance. 
• Indian operator, Bharti Airtel has launched the ‘3 Pack Education Portal’, 
a mobile learning platform for its Indian customers. The Airtel ‘Exam 
Preparation Service’ helps students prepare for various entrance exams like 
the GMAT and GRE using mobile devices. Additionally, it also offers English 
learning and campus search tools for its subscribers.
• In 2009, Mobile Operator Turkcell launched the Mobil Egitim (Mobile 
Education) initiative which enables users to get podcasts or text-based 
education programmes via mobile tools.
• Nokia launched its Life Tools application in 2009 and used an interesting 
approach for distributing content related to agriculture, education, 
entertainment and healthcare. Individuals can obtain content either 
as a combined package (including the price of the device) or as a paid 
subscription. The application has over 48 million subscriptions today.
• Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach™ initiative ‘WE Learn’ is empowering 
third-grade students at Nan Chiau Primary School in Singapore to use 
3G-enabled smartphones to transform learning from a traditional, teacher-
centric model to a student-centric, inquiry-oriented, collaborative model.
• According to the research firm, Ambient Insight, the global market for  
mobile learning products and services is expected to grow to 9.1 billion 
USD by 2015. 
• The South Korean government is in the process of providing digital 
textbooks to all students by 2015 in order to help reduce the cost of 
textbooks and make traditional education more affordable.
5. Based on primary interviews and discussions with education experts and mEducation service providers. 
6. Average savings have been estimated based on the 450 – 600 USD that students can save each year. The 
average length of schooling is 12 years. Total Savings have been estimated with a nominal interest rate of 
4.5% a year.
7. For estimates in the case of compulsory military service, an additional 2 - 3 years have been added to 
account for the service period. Nominal interest of 4.5% has been used in this case.
16 PwCaround 1.5% of GDP is spent on 
private, after-school education
students go to private after-
school classes
annual cost of these classes 
per student
around 1,550 USD is spent on 
English and Mathematics classes
3 hours
93%
90%
8000 to 
12000 
USD1 to 2 
years7.5% 60%1 hour2nd rank
=17.5 bn USD 
70% 
2,550 USD 
67%  
The average 
Korean student...
additional time spent 
studying everyday 
when compared to their 
OECD counterparts
of Korean parents want 
their children to enroll in 
higher educationstudents get less sleep 
daily compared to other 
developed countries
over their 
school livesof university 
or higher 
education costsin Pearson’s Global Index 
of  Cognitive Skills and 
Educational Attainment
of South Koreans between 12 
to 29 years own smartphones7.5% of them 
own tabletsusers spend more than two 
hours a day on these devices
Technology-enhanced learning can help students save...Technology enhanced learning (including mobile) in South Korea
Initial short listing of country-specific interventions and 
their key areas of impact
This research report aims to capture the socio-economic  impact of Connected 
Life services in Japan, China, South Korea and India. As part of our research, 
we looked at the four services of the Connected Living programme: mHealth, 
mEducation, mAutomotive and SmartCities. 
We shortlisted a series of potential country-specific interventions based on the 
following filters:
• Address key burning needs that affect the country on a large scale
• Have a measurable impact by 2017
• Have some degree of adoption in the existing market 
• However for South Korea, we have not used adoption rate for population and 
estimated savings for each student
Based on our filtering criteria, we arrived at four interventions for the four 
countries.
Capturing data and developing impact models
We created a master pool of data to capture relevant data points for each of the 
four countries from the respective country statistics database (e.g. MHLW, CEA, 
Ministry of Power, Ministry of Education) and globally recognised knowledge 
sources (e.g. WHO, UN and World Bank). We then identified a series of case 
studies, research outcomes, and pilot programmes that have been able to arrive 
at quantifiable conclusions on the impact of each of the mobile interventions in 
the respective countries. 
Based on the impact evidence, the respective country studies have been clustered 
(Japan: Disease type, India: State-wise energy losses) and organised to provide 
specific impact data metrics. Clusters with similar impact levels based on current 
conditions and mobile penetration levels are adjusted to similar impact levels. 
These clusters and the impact of these interventions were consolidated to arrive 
at the first set of conclusions. These conclusions were then tested by altering 
impact metrics to arrive at optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. Another series 
of tests conducted involved the introduction of error variables to determine the 
sensitivity of these models.
Arriving at projections
The models have been designed such that the impact of each intervention is 
estimated on existing projections of impact areas. For instance, in case of our 
SmartCities–India study, we used the Planning Commission report as the basis 
for analysing our impact on projected energy losses. Based on this impact, we 
have arrived at our conclusion for each of the four topics of research.
Master data Need for mobile 
interventionMicroanalysis Impact evidence Scenario analysis Output
Identifying relevant 
data pointsData analysis to 
establish realityIdentifying cluster 
criterion Finalising case 
studies and 
impacts deliveredParameters varied 
to identify various 
scenarios Example: 
Power theft is a big 
challenge in India that 
can be reduced using 
mobile enabled smart 
meter technology, 
which can also help 
save enough electricity 
to power more than 10 
million homes.National statistics 
and global 
knowledge source Places where 
possible mobile 
interventions can 
create a positive 
impact were 
identified.Each country study 
first identifies the 
methodology of 
clustering and then 
impact evidences 
are staggered 
accordingly. Identify relevant 
case studies and 
pilot programmes 
utilising mobile 
technologies for 
each relevant topic. Develop impact 
parameters based 
on case studies 
and pilots. Develop 
the impact model 
and identify impact 
of outcomes.Methodology
Methodology to identify socioeconomic impact for each Connected Life service covered 
mHealth 
• Japan Statistical Yearbook (2012)
• Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare
• National Institute of Population and Social Security Research
• “How Ageing (Demographic change) affects Health care expenditure in Japan?” by Takashi Ando
• Palliative Care for the Elderly: A Japanese Perspective by Yoshihisa Hirakawa 
• The current situation and the future direction of the Long-term Care Insurance System in Japan
• Projection of Social Burden of the Elderly in Japan using INAHSIM by Tetsuo Fukawa 
• Health and long-term care expenditures of the elderly in Japan using a micro-simulation model by 
Tetsuo Fukawa 
• From Silver to Gold: The implications of Japan’s ageing population- General Electrics (in association 
with EIU)
• Vital signs via broadband: remote health monitoring transmits savings, enhances lives by Robert Litan 
• Impact of Home-Based Monitoring on the Care of Patients With Congestive Heart Failure by Myers et al
• Intel Health Guide and Chronic Diseases by Medd/Rowell
mAutomotive
• Chinese Academy of Sciences report on Traffic congestion
• IMF and China National Bureau of Statistics Data on population indicators 
• World Bank data on vehicle per capita indicators 
• Cisco study on urban traffic congestion
• Study by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of California, Berkeley on traffic congestion
• QUARTET PLUS Project: Journey times for cars and public transport vehicles reduced
• PROMISE Project: Improved access to information
• CAPITALS project: Improved traffic forecasting and traffic information
mEducation
• Statistics Korea indicators on private education
• The Worldwide Market for Mobile Learning Products and Services: 2010-2015 Forecast and Analysis by 
Ambient Insight 
• WEF report on mEducation
• Transforming learning through mEducation (2010) by McKinsey and GSMA 
• Mobile education landscape report (2011) by GSMA 
• UNESCO & Nokia: Turning on mobile learning > Illustrative initiatives and policy implications (2012)
• Verizon Foundation pilot on use of mobile education for students in US (2012)
• Qualcomm’s Wireless Reach initiative for 3G-enabled learning for grade three students (2012)
• Integrating technology in the classroom (2012)- Vodafone initiative in South Africa
Smart Cities
• The Working of State Power Utilities & Electricity Departments: Annual report (2011-12)
• Energy Statistics 2012-Central Statistics Office, India
• Central Electrical Authority, India: Annual Report 2011-12
• Determining T&D Losses in India, their Impact on Distribution Privatisation and Regulation by  V Ranganathan 
• “The Performance of State Power Utilities for the years 2008-09 to 2010-11” by Power Finance Corporation Ltd
• “Feedback on household electricity consumption: a tool for saving energy?” by Corinna Fischer
• Results from recent real-time feedback studies by Ben Foster and Susan Mazur-Stommen 
• Smart meter roll-out for the domestic sector by DECC (Great Britain) 
• Reducing Technical and Non Technical Losses in the Power Sector- World Bank Group Energy Sector Strategy 
• “Distribution loss of electricity and influence of energy flows: A case study of a major section in Kerala” by P R 
Suresh, Shanavas ElacholaReferences
Shashank Tripathi
India Leader – Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9819678900
Email: shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.com
Mohammad Chowdhury
India Leader – Telecom
Phone:+91 9167665544
Email: mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.com
David Wijeratne
Associate Director – Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9818966775
Email: david.wijeratne@in.pwc.com
Madhu Varshitt YS
Principal Consultant – Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9769721412
Email: madhu.varshitt.ys@in.pwc.com
Mayank Sankar Nayak
Consultant – Telecom
Phone:+91 9867464488
Email: mayank.s.nayak@in.pwc.com
Tanushree Srivastava
Senior Consultant – Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9930821238
Email: tanushree.srivastava@in.pwc.comContacts
About PwC  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the 
value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 
158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are 
committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and 
advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, 
having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, 
Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. 
For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to 
the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal 
entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further 
details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc

www.pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this 
publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for 
any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability 
company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK17 - June 2013 Connected Life.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
