Title: pwc_leading-industry-practices-in-security-and-privacy
Date Published: 2013-07-11 12:22:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_leading-industry-practices-in-security-and-privacy.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Leading industry 
practices in security 
and privacy
www.pwc.in
DSCI Excellence AwardsContent list: An easy to read at-a-glance summary.  
Banking  p4/Telecom p6 /e-Governance p8 /IT services p10 /BPO p12/Privacy 14 /
DSCI Excellence Awardsp17

2 PwC - DSCIOrganisations today need to be increasingly secure as the environment 
in which they operate is more and more complex and dynamic with 
attackers using innovative techniques such as emerging mobile and 
cloud platforms. Security response to this challenge must be equally 
innovative - a way that helps an organisation become nimble footed to 
respond quickly to real threats in its environment. It should be able to 
assess its maturity in implementing security in different areas with a 
view to continually improve the same. A Security programme needs to 
be dynamic and vibrant such that it enables quick response to threats, 
vulnerabilities and actual cyber attacks. Data Security Council of India 
(DSCI) has been promoting such an approach through its DSCI Security Framework  (DSF©) - 
a security discipline specific approach based on a set of security principles - visibility, vigilance, 
coverage & accuracy, discipline in defense; focus on strategic, tactical and operational layers, 
powered by a data-centric implementation methodology. It is gratifying to see that DSF© 
has found acceptance by the industry, and that it is being used as reference guide to improve 
security practices by many organisations. 
DSCI decided that it was equally important to recognise, honour and reward organisations and 
individuals who have implemented strong, effective and resilient data protection programmes 
to help them address real risks, build resilience, increase trustworthiness and create an 
environment conducive to business. With this in mind, DSCI announced the institution of the 
‘DSCI Excellence Awards ’ in the year 2011. In the very first year, we received 60 nominations 
representing 52 organisations across 10 categories in the corporate segment. In the second 
year, we received an even more encouraging response – 78 nominations, inspiring us to do 
better each year. We are very thankful to the industry for reposing its faith in DSCI.
I’m pleased to present to you ‘Leading industry practices for security and privacy’  compiled 
based on the analysis of the actual practices implemented by organisations as revealed in 
the DSCI Excellence Awards nominations. This report will help the organisations benchmark 
themselves against the best practices, and will enable them to incorporate security and privacy 
best practices in their business operations. 
I’m convinced organisations will be motivated to further improve their security and privacy 
programmes, and many more will participate in the DSCI Excellence Awards this year.
Dr. Kamlesh Bajaj
CEO - DSCIForeword

                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            3Organisations in India are leading the pack, faring even better than their 
foreign counterparts, on security and privacy initiatives. In many instances, 
the clients, who outsource their work to India, find the security and privacy 
practices of India based service providers to be more robust and mature. 
These clients are using contractual obligations with their outsourcing 
partners to drive security and privacy controls more comprehensively. 
Having said that, given the spate of incidences that have persistently 
troubled our nation in the field of security and privacy, it is essential to 
realise that organisations in India still have a long way to go. 
DSCI - a NASSCOM initiative - has been working with organisations to alleviate some of these 
challenges. One of the practices to achieve this is the Best-Practices symposiums conducted 
regularly in order to evangelise and highlight innovations. Another feature, that has become a 
popular part of the initiative, is the DSCI Excellence Awards. Started in 2011 to recognise and 
honour successful organisations and individuals in the field of security, the awards have seen an 
overwhelming response in the first two years of their existence. Leaders of various organisations 
have nominated themselves across different categories of awards. While there were over 60 
nominations in various categories, the enthusiasm in 2012 topped the previous year’s numbers by 
some margin. Organisations from the IT services, BPO, banking, telecom and eGovernance domains 
have participated in these awards. Year 2012 also saw the advent of a special category on privacy, 
highlighting the need to specifically deal with the subject. We are proud to mention that PwC has 
been assisting DSCI through this award process since its inception.
As a part of this process, a wealth of information has been put forward, highlighting the essential 
practices that these organisations have been institutionalising in their domains. An analysis of 
this has revealed interesting trends. For example, while business process management (BPM/
BPO) organisations have worked effectively to cater to their customers using compliance-based 
initiatives, the banking sector has reached the stage where it finds merit in automating its GRC 
portfolio and incorporating security and privacy aspects as part of their control framework. 
Similarly, while telecom companies are striving to ensure that their infrastructure is safe from 
malicious intent by improving the security of the telecom infrastructure components, eGovernance 
projects are devising comprehensive strategies to provide reliable services despite sheer size and 
volume of delivery. Finally, with the user-base of social networking systems skyrocketing to never-
before numbers, the risks associated with sharing information that is private to individuals is also 
growing in proportion. Organisations are dealing with this in surprisingly innovative ways; while 
ensuring due cognisance to the fundamentals of the domain.
With the intent of helping better current practices, I am proud to present this report highlighting 
some of the initiatives that your organisation may like to follow. We hope you find it useful for 
improving security posture, drive privacy and achieve compliance to regulatory requirements.
Sivarama Krishnan
Executive director - PricewaterhouseCoopers, IndiaPreface

4 PwC - DSCIBanking
With cyber-attacks becoming more unpredictable and 
electronic payment systems becoming susceptible 
to innovative attack variations, banks have started 
introducing certain minimum checks and balances to 
minimise the impact of such attacks.
Security strategy and governance
Most banks have defined and deployed a robust 
information security framework to mitigate risks in a pro-
active as well as reactive manner.
All strategic plans and decisions for security and privacy 
are taken by a team involving business, operations, 
IT and information security. As part of the structure, 
focussed information security forums have been formed 
to oversee the design, enforcement and compliance of the 
information security framework.
The security framework is extended and implemented 
through the information security policy and procedures. 
The policies are being framed in consultation with 
business owners and are approved by senior management 
and stakeholders. A central information security 
committee is being constituted to oversee and manage the 
security program in most banks.
As part of the strategy, most of the banks have also 
started using technology to have an integrated view of 
governance risk and compliance framework by deploying 
GRC tools. This helps them to have a comprehensive view 
of the controls framework and compliance dashboard.
Banks have started deploying 
automated governance risk and 
compliance solutions to have 
a comprehensive view of the 
control framework.
Compliance 
Banks are steadily moving towards defining the 
compliance function as a part of the overall governance 
structure. Security effectiveness metrics and performance 
indicators help measure compliance reporting. These 
indicators are used to depict the compliance status and 
maturity of security controls. From a compliance perspective, all applications that have 
an impact on the bank’s financial statements, as well as 
critical applications are considered by banks under the 
purview of the regulatory framework and are audited 
on a periodic basis. The metrics generated from the 
compliance programme are populated in the security 
dashboard and actions are initiated for improvement.
For ensuring compliance to security, a formal audit 
program is in place at most of the banks. Some of them 
are also using independent third parties to perform audits 
and measure compliance effectiveness. 
Awareness and culture
As part of the awareness strategy, banks have targeted 
both internal as well as external stakeholders i.e. 
employees and customers. 
Small capsules of targeted training are delivered 
frequently so that information security stays in the mental 
horizon of employees. Customised audio or visual films 
showing various scenarios are being utilised by banks 
to create awareness. These short videos are thought-
provoking, visually pleasing and engage the audience. 
Such films are shot by organisations themselves in-house 
in order to generate interest and better impact. 
Short awareness capsules are 
delivered frequently instead of 
lengthy sessions.
Banks are leveraging on a dedicated information security 
portal as well as their internal staff training centres to 
meet security training and awareness requirements.
Security organisation
A bank’s security organisation starts with the formation 
of apex committees with the board of directors who 
provide direction. The security organisation structure is 
formed in such a manner that it is aligned with business 
requirements and business goals.
Banks have a dedicated Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO) who heads and governs the information security 
program in coordination with the functional teams. 
Some banks have clearly defined the responsible, 
accountable, consulted and informed (RACI) matrix to 
provide clear roles and responsibilities with respect to 
security activities.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            5To operationalise security, we have seen a trend wherein 
banks are moving towards a managed security services 
model. In some cases, a sourcing model is followed to 
supplement the security organisation.
Third-party management
Banks have started developing comprehensive 
outsourcing policies in order to cover risks arising out of 
third-party engagement. These policies are aligned with 
the RBI guidelines and other regulatory requirements. 
As a process, all outsourcing contracts are endorsed by 
the legal division of banks. Some of the key information 
security aspects incorporated as part of these contracts 
include the right to audit, non-disclosure agreement 
(NDA) and specific compliance requirements against 
standards such as PCI-DSS, ISO 27001, etc.  
Basic security controls such as 
right to audit, NDA, compliance 
to specific standards are 
included in the contracts .
As part of the third-party management, banks have a 
complete list of all third parties and have also identified 
single points of contact to manage these with respect to 
information security. Banks are using independent third-
party agencies to perform periodic onsite assessment of their 
critical vendors based on information security controls. 
Banks are also mandating third parties to provide a self-
assessment compliance certificate on a periodic basis to 
ensure that the vendor has self-reviewed and are compliant 
with all security requirements as defined by the banks.
Data-centric initiatives
To meet upcoming challenges, banks are following 
a holistic risk management approach. They have 
started using process and technical controls to address 
data security risks. These include classification of 
information and using tools such as Information Right 
Management (IRM), Data Loss Prevention (DLP) and 
full disk encryption. Data exchange with third parties 
are protected by using technologies such as secure FTP, 
strong authentication mechanism and monitoring these 
connections on a regular basis.Banks are also getting their critical locations such as data 
centre, disaster recovery site certified against information 
security standards such as ISO 27001, ISO 22301 and PCI-
DSS. Some banks have also developed a comprehensive 
list of security metrics automated using methodologies 
such as ISO 27004.
Domain specific initiatives
Most banks have implemented a number of controls 
to minimise the risk of fraud due to internet or mobile 
banking. These controls include the following: 
• Advance authentication mechanism such as SMS 
based one time password (OTP), challenge response 
questions, out of band OTP, and site-to-user 
authentication
• Water marking tools for mitigating phishing risks on 
their net banking websites
• Rule-based fraud monitoring engines for detecting real-
time credit card frauds
• Real-time SMS and email alert system to customers to 
mitigate the risk of any fraudulent and unauthorised 
transactions
• One-time-use cards self created by customers with a 
pre-defined limit set by the customer to deter from 
credit card frauds
• Mobile application assessment and code signing for 
mobile banking
Water marking tools are used to 
mitigate phishing risks on net 
banking website.
6 PwC - DSCITelecom
The telecommunication network technology has evolved 
from the traditional public switched telephone network 
(PSTN) to 3G, and more recently to 4G network services. 
Today’s telecommunication industry has to operate within  
a new and more accountable business environment, with 
a whole gamut of services such as the Internet, VAS, 
and IP TV apart from the traditional communication 
services. The networks are increasingly being targeted 
by motivated attackers to intercept, disrupt or deny 
communications. These attackers may include individual 
or organisational hackers or even state-sponsored 
agencies. Additionally, given that telecommunications 
constitutes a critical part of the infrastructure for any 
country, regulators and government bodies are looking 
at a comprehensive range of security solutions and are no 
longer simply imposing financial penalties for defaulters. 
Therefore, to stay ahead of the competition, operators 
must maintain a secure, highly available infrastructure 
providing resilient and reliable services to their 
subscribers.
Security strategy and governance   
Within the telecommunications environment, we find 
that information security is integrated across diverse and 
dynamic business environments, encompassing people, 
processes, and technologies. Technology plays a key role 
today in the implementation of the information security 
strategy.  Operators rely not only on the application of 
baseline security standards (for e.g. ISO 27001,  PCI-
DSS etc), but also focus on cyber crime analysis and 
investigations. The security initiatives adequately address 
governance and compliance issues, and ensure a risk-
based security structure approach and posture.
Certification towards standards 
such as ISO 27001, PCI-DSS, 
BS 25999 / ISO 22301 is being 
observed.
Early detection and reducing the cost of security incidents 
is one of the key aspects of a well-defined security 
strategy. Compliance with regulatory requirements is an 
important consideration while creating the strategy. Last, 
but most importantly, the overall strategy alignment is 
made with the business goals.Security organisation
In line with the goals of the security strategy of telecom 
companies, steering committees headed by the top 
management have been formed in order to govern the 
security strategy. The CIO, CTO, CISO are permanent 
members of the steering committee, while other 
functional heads  such as the chief human resource 
officer (CHRO), the chief marketing officer (CMO) and 
the chief financial officer (CFO), are invited as and when 
required. Besides, cross-functional security teams have 
been created and business involvement and management 
representation is ensured in all spheres. 
Given the criticality of the sector from a national 
security perspective, collaboration with external 
stakeholders is a key aspect for developing a well-
framed security organisation. This also involves telecom 
companies actively engaging with the Department 
of Telecommunications (DoT), industry associations, 
Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-
In), DSCI and similar other bodies. Since some telecom 
companies operate in the international arena as well, 
they have also been aligning their central strategies to 
other geographies, with requisite customisation. For 
this purpose, international legal teams are working 
collaboratively in order to assist the security organisations 
to draft uniform policies to govern the environments.
Compliance   
In the case of the telecom industry, compliance mainly 
revolves around factors such as, regulatory compliance, 
telecom network security compliance, IT security 
compliance, third-party security compliance, functional 
security compliance, compliance to various ISO 
standards, data protection laws, CMMI standards etc. 
Regular audits, risk assessments and reviews form the 
basis of such compliances. 
Most operators have created a multi-tiered structure in 
order to address these compliances. The compliance process 
involves building in-depth security controls across all 
departments of the organisation, such as finance, IT, legal, 
HR etc. Information security teams, in consultation with 
other cross-functional teams provide regulatory compliance 
of technical and business solutions across the organisation.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            7Awareness and culture   
Awareness usually starts from the dissemination of 
the information security policy to the organisation 
by participating in meetings, and understanding the 
importance of security concepts and their significance in 
the respective domains. The target audience is identified 
and the corresponding requirements understood. These 
trainings are delivered by means of tools, frameworks 
and channels. Some organisations have also taken to 
incentivising trainings by having properly scheduled 
events to train and educate employees and contractors.
Incentivising training and proper assessment is a key step 
towards a successful security organisation
Many organisations prefer to follow a centralised training 
system using computer-aided techniques, including online 
training modules.
Third- party management   
Some of the leading telecom operators have outsourced 
their core network management, IT management, contact 
centres and retail outlets. There are several vendors and 
partners for sales and distribution, marketing, and HR, 
who handle customer and employee data. Therefore, 
third party security governance is a key component for 
these operators. For an efficient management of the third 
party, a risk management framework is used and risk-
based audits are carried out, both directly and by using 
independent third-party agencies. International standards 
are put into contracts with such vendors and partners for 
de-risking operations. Operators usually prefer to have 
framed selection criteria for third parties and the central 
governance teams have standard assessment parameters 
for evaluation purpose. For audit observations, the 
vendors are time-bound to address the identified issues in 
order to ensure compliance.
For outsourced processes in the 
telecom domain, risks related 
to security are also being 
channelised to vendors and 
partners through contracts, 
where penalties are also being 
borne by the vendors.Data-centric Initiatives
Most operators have a comprehensive range of data 
protection programmes across various functions, processes, 
platforms and locations. The purpose of these programmes 
is to evaluate, identify, design and implement various data 
protection initiatives in order to protect business sensitive 
data at various stages of its life cycle. Data leakage analysis 
is done for critical business functions. 
Data leakage prevention tools 
are being deployed to de-risk 
business management.
Some of the telecom operators have adopted a 
quantitative approach towards discovering and 
identifying critical data elements. A layered approach 
for data protection is a convenient approach, and 
organisations usually prefer a segregated architectural 
treatment. Effectiveness and gaps are periodically 
assessed in accordance to which, required controls and 
initiatives are driven to mitigate the identified gaps.
Domain- specific security initiatives
Being a critical part of the infrastructure of the country, 
the domain security initiatives of telecom operators 
are tailored to the information passing through the 
organisations’ infrastructure. To ensure the security 
of sensitive data, telecom operators routinely perform 
vulnerability assessments of their infrastructure, conduct 
application security assessments, maintain audit trails for 
all critical components of the infrastructure and carry out 
cyber-security drills under the aegis of CERT- In.
In addition to these, for adherence to the laws and 
regulations, telecom operators also certify themselves  
to standards such as ISO 27001, PCI DSS, and business 
continuity standards such as BS 25999 / ISO 22301.
As a result of regulatory 
changes, telecom operators have 
started performing a security 
assessment for the core telecom 
network. 
8 PwC - DSCIe-Governance
Over the years, a large number of transformation and 
mission mode projects have been undertaken by various 
central ministries and state governments in order to 
provide quality services to the citizen in a more transparent 
and efficient manner. These services involve information 
transaction and processing, and in some cases e-payment 
services are being offered to the citizens. An increased 
usage of IT in providing these services has also exposed 
the government organisations to increased number of 
sophisticated attacks. It is therefore essential to ensure that 
disruptions of critical government information systems are 
contained and managed effectively in order to minimise 
their impact.
Security strategy and governance
Some of the organisations have started defining security 
requirements from the project initiation stage itself. Such 
organisations have been referring to various guidelines 
issued by the Department of Electronics and Information 
technology (DeitY) and the CERT-In to define their 
security strategy.
Capacity building with 
respect to information 
security is the core 
component of the security 
strategy.
Most of these departments have adopted the ISO 27001 
standard in order to define the security framework and 
the certification requirements are clearly laid down in 
the tender or Request for Proposal (RFP) documents for 
IT projects.
Capacity building is the core component of the security 
strategy, and various training and certification requirements 
have been clearly identified for the stakeholders.
The means and mechanisms deployed in order to 
operationalise the security strategy include governance 
through an Information Security Management System 
(ISMS) framework and process standardisation through 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).Security organisation
Some organisations have a dedicated information security 
committee headed by the senior most member of the 
organisation. These committees have representation 
from both, internal as well as external stakeholders 
such as departmental heads, independent advisors and 
representation from service providers.
An information security 
committee and a security officer 
have been nominated in order to 
drive information security.
Some of the organisations have a designated chief 
information security officer (CISO), who is assigned 
to oversee the implementation and effectiveness of 
the implemented security framework. Further key 
responsibility areas (KRAs) have been defined in order 
to create the ownership and accountability within the 
organisation. These personnel who are responsible to drive 
the security programme have undergone trainings and also 
hold certifications such as CISA, CISM and CISSP.
Compliance
Organisations are appointing third-party agencies to 
review and report the compliance status. The scope 
of such reviews consists of network-level assessments, 
security requirements, adherence to service levels, 
application security audits and asset audits. Some  
organisations have specific service level agreements 
(SLAs) related to information security and penalties are 
levied on the third parties or vendor,  in case some gaps 
have been  identified.
Third party agencies are 
appointed to review and 
measure the compliance of the 
security operations.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            9Awareness and culture
Creating awareness within the government sector 
is the most challenging aspect due to the scale and 
stakeholder maturity.
Some organisations are using various mechanisms in order 
to create awareness including class room training and 
computer-based training programmes. Various security 
advisories are issued by the senior management to all 
project locations on a regular basis.  Security newsletters 
are published in a bi-lingual format including English and 
Hindi, which have been well appreciated by stakeholders 
and have been able to create an impact at the ground level. 
Various quizzes are being organised and deserving officers 
are appreciated and encouraged by senior members to 
create a visibility within the organisation.
Third- party management
Government organisations have clearly started defining 
the security requirements in their tender and contract 
documents. These requirements include Non Disclosure 
Agreement (NDA) clauses, ownership of the source 
code, background screening and security controls to 
be deployed during the development, operation and 
independent review of these requirements as part of the 
contract itself.
Security requirements are 
defined during the initiation of 
the project itself.
Security requirements are created as a part of RFP and 
contracts and a KPI-based monitoring and assessment 
approach is followed.Data- centric initiatives
Most government organisations have undertaken 
conscious effort to protect business critical data through 
the implementation of business continuity and disaster 
recovery (DR) plans for their datacenter. The testing of 
these DR plans is performed regularly in order to check 
the efficiency and effectiveness of the implementation. 
Organisations have made clear demarcations between 
development and testing environments, in order to 
segregate duties between the development and operation 
teams. Various encryption mechanisms are being used 
to protect the confidentiality of data. Security incident 
and event management (SIEM) solutions are deployed 
in order to have a real-time view of the threat landscape. 
Security incidents are reported to the respective 
stakeholders who in turn, take corrective actions.
Domain- specific security initiatives
The applications used by organisations follow a software 
development lifecycle methodology and user acceptance 
testing is conducted before moving to production. 
Vulnerability assessment and penetration testing is 
performed by third parties appointed for networks 
and application infrastructure and independent code 
reviews help plug the vulnerabilities and thus yield 
performance benefits. In some of the G2B and G2C 
services, transactional security is ensured by SSL, secure 
file transfers and digital certificates. In cases where high 
probability of spoofing instances are likely multi-factor 
authentication like biometric, OTP based authentication 
and digital signature on public key infrastructure are used 
for a high degree of authentication assurance.
10 PwC - DSCIIT services
The IT services industry in India has come a long way 
since inception. With the focus shifting from pure-play 
development and implementation projects in the industry, 
effort driven towards customer satisfaction through 
quality, productivity and value delivery is now required. 
In addition to these factors, a security strategy aligned 
with the business strategy helps achieve a comprehensive 
services portfolio with a new level of confidence for 
customers. Security, therefore, is no more being seen 
as an obligatory investment but as an investment 
which generates returns. Service models such as cloud 
computing are expected to further drive integration of 
security in IT service delivery.
Security strategy and governance
As part of the strategy, IT companies have taken an 
inclusive approach rather than a standalone one in 
policy-framing, by setting up a management security 
forum chaired by the CXO and comprising senior 
members from various organisations. Additionally, a 
business-aligned security approach is enabling earlier 
involvement of security in new initiatives rather than 
having to bolt-on expensive security remedies later. 
Embedding risk management in daily operations, 
putting processes and technologies in place for 
information security and continuous monitoring and 
study of emerging threats are considered essential for 
the implementation of a security strategy.
Companies are making the abilities to customise and 
scale essential components of security policy to deal with 
geography and industry based risks.
For the successful implementation of the security strategy, 
employee awareness, physical security, compliance to 
statutory, audit standards and customer contracts have 
been defined as core components. Regular assessment of 
existing and new controls, comprehensive and regular risk 
assessment and analysis of business requirements are the 
basis for defining the organisation’s security strategy. The 
information security team which has direct support and 
involvement from management and business is most likely 
to implement the security strategy effectively.There is also focus on infrastructure optimisation, 
consolidation and providing flexibility to work from 
anywhere using mobile devices. As companies want to 
derive maximum benefits of technology, there is also 
a well-defined strategy on implementing information 
security measures to address new risks associated with 
the adoption of new technologies and the changing 
threat horizon.
Security organisation
In terms of creating a strategic roadmap for a responsive 
and competent security organisation, detailed hierarchy 
structures are created by most IT companies for security. 
The roles and responsibilities are well defined and clearly 
articulated. Involvement of senior management is a 
key aspect for proper implementation of the security 
strategy. To facilitate that, periodic reporting and review 
mechanisms are provided to senior management. 
Additionally, cross-functional interaction is maintained 
and skill up-gradation training is carried out on a periodic 
basis and is often incentivised.
It is critical to note that security creates value for 
organisations and their clients. Organisations have started 
creating independent teams that assist in reviewing the RFP 
for any business engagements and reviewing any specific 
security requirements. These help understand the concerns 
of business teams upfront and deliver the value additions.
Compliance
In most IT services companies today, the security 
organisation is working in tandem with the legal 
department to look for applicable statutes having 
a bearing on information security and necessary 
compliance requirements under those statutes. To look at 
compliance in a holistic manner, IT services organisations 
are also conducting spot audits (many times using 
independent third parties), reviewing security incidents, 
and involving all stakeholders while determining 
the challenges faced to comply with existing security 
standards. Compliance tools are being utilised to project 
compliance status to the management through snapshots 
of overall compliance of the organisation.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            11Organisations have a separate 
compliance function to adhere 
to regulatory and other 
applicable requirements.
Awareness and culture
Having policies and procedures alone does not ensure 
security compliance if the organisation does not create 
adequate awareness among its employees. Companies are 
integrating security and compliance awareness training 
into the induction programmes of their associates. These 
trainings are being customised as per the target audience 
including third-party staff. Proactive reward mechanisms 
for disclosure of non-compliances to policy are also being 
seen as a way to raise awareness and promote a culture of 
disclosure among employees.
Companies are resorting to various modes of 
communication like print media, technology, direct 
communication and are innovating to articulate their 
security and compliance policies. Customised handbooks 
are being designed for managers and associates. To bring 
in practicality to training modules, real-life scenarios, in 
addition to contractual and statutory requirements are 
being considered while designing the content.
Data-centric initiatives
Data is at the core of every business, perhaps more so in 
the case of IT services. Many such organisations are also 
seeing IPR protection as a critical area for data-centric 
security strategy. Organisations have built a well-defined 
information and asset classification policy to ensure that 
all information owned by the company and the client 
is clearly labeled and classified. Controls are being put 
in place to secure such data, and the strength of such 
controls is commensurate to the level of classification. IPR protection is being 
considered as a key parameter 
in defining a data-centric 
security strategy.
Domain specific initiatives
As businesses move towards the ‘cloud’, clients are 
looking for security features in systems that enable 
such transitions. This has resulted in focusing a tiered 
approach to integrated security models. The traditional 
systems development life cycle (SDLC) process has been 
replaced with a ‘secure’ SDLC in IT services organisations, 
which enables identification of security requirements of 
customers and ensures customisability of information 
systems being implemented to handle such needs.
IT development is moving from 
a traditional SDLC towards a 
secure-SDLC, where security 
requirements and modules are 
embedded in the development 
process.
While segregated offshore development centres for each 
client have been the norm for some time, new challenges 
have arisen. Clients and employees have started using 
newer technologies such as smartphones and tablets for 
business purposes, demanding more comprehensive service 
portfolios. The security functions of IT services organisations 
have started enabling these transitions by introducing 
policies such as bring-your-own-device (BYOD).
12 PwC - DSCIBPO
The business process outsourcing (BPO) industry in 
India has witnessed phenomenal growth by providing 
significant cost savings, higher quality products and 
processes and improved operational performance. Studies 
have shown that security controls deployed by the BPO 
industry in India are much more stringent as compared 
to controls deployed even by their clients. Given the 
sensitivity of data handled by BPOs, security is an integral 
part of service delivery. The industry has to comply 
with various regulatory requirements across different 
geographies along with customer-specific requirements.
Security strategy and governance
While defining the security strategy, BPOs are not only 
considering specific security requirements of clients but 
also international standards and regulatory requirements.
The BPO security strategy takes into account all 
components of the ecosystem including employees, third 
parties, business partners and suppliers. Organisations 
are also trying to integrate their security framework with 
the enterprise risk management (ERM) and business 
continuity management (BCM) framework in order to 
optimise the efforts and have an integrated framework for 
better sustenance.
Most BPOs have ensured that their security strategy 
is aligned with business requirements. Organisations 
have taken various measures such as ensuring business 
representation during the formulation, review and 
feedback of the security strategy, which is derived from 
the business plan.
Integrated framework 
comprising information 
security, enterprise risk 
management and business 
continuity are deployed to 
optimise the effort.Compliance
The compliance function in this sector is a dedicated 
and separate function in the organisation. The scope 
of compliance in BPOs revolves around legal and 
regulatory compliances, contractual compliances, policies 
and procedures, code of conduct, licences and ethics 
management.
Some organisations have a dedicated compliance manager 
aligned to specific functions or process to oversee and 
manage compliance requirements. 
Compliance to ISO 27001 
requirements is a basic norm 
followed across the BPO 
industry.
Knowledge management relating to compliance is done 
in a structured manner and compliance reports are 
published on a regular basis, with circulation amongst 
relevant stakeholders. Internal audits, metric collection 
and analysis, dashboard reviews and management 
reviews are undertaken using compliance and GRC tools 
to monitor the effectiveness and compliance status.
Awareness and culture
Awareness is the critical component of the security 
strategy. Various measures are implemented to create 
security awareness among stakeholders using both 
pull and push techniques. Such techniques include 
an induction programme for new joinees, e-learning 
modules, portal, mailers, screensavers, posters and 
focused discussion groups. 
KPI based assessment is also done for assessing the 
effectiveness of awareness programmes. Deserving 
candidates are rewarded. Various security contests and 
quizzes are organised where winners are announced to 
the entire organisation in order to create visibility.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            13Security organisation
Most BPOs have drafted a layered security organisation 
model with clearly defined strategic, tactical and 
operational layers to operationalise the security strategy. 
Roles and responsibilities are clearly defined for all three 
layers and stakeholders from different functions are part 
of the security organisation.
In most cases, the BCP, information security and the data 
privacy team make sure that the security organisation is 
aligned to business goals. Together they form part of a 
holistic risk and compliance team. 
Relevant information security certifications and external 
trainings are stressed upon and skill up-gradation 
programmes are carried out with proper monitoring 
mechanisms for the security team. Some of the 
organisations have gone further in setting up a centre 
of excellence to assist various business units for risk 
management.
External participation with nodal agencies such as CERT-
In and industry bodies such as NASSCOM, DSCI, etc 
forms an integral part of the security strategy for BPOs.
Data-centric initiatives
The information security programme of BPOs mostly 
focuses on clearly identified and prioritised critical 
data in order to protect it with appropriate controls. 
Most organisations prefer having a data-centric security 
framework and methodology. Process owners are 
responsible for ensuring that information is classified as 
per the defined guidelines and deployed controls in the 
organisation
BPOs have started deploying 
comprehensive privacy 
policies as per the various 
regulatory requirements such 
as the IT Act, DPA and HIPAA 
requirements.Conventional control mechanisms are placed such 
as restricted access to the workfloor, physical assets, 
printing, internet and signing of confidentiality 
agreements. BPOs have also deployed advanced technical 
controls such as masking of confidential data, deployment 
of DLP and DRM tools to reduce the risk associated with 
the breach and exposure of sensitive data.  Encryption 
solutions have been deployed for mobile devices, 
production, non-production systems, external media and 
archival data.
Some of these BPOs have defined comprehensive privacy 
principles based on the IT Act (Clause 43 A), DPA and 
HIPAA requirements. 
Domain specific security initiatives
Most BPOs stress upon information security and data 
privacy across all projects. They prefer having a common 
approach framework for engagement executions, with a 
baseline of different international standards such as ISO 
27001 and acts such as HIPAA.
Client-specific requirements are implemented for 
particular functions and processes. These include 
compliance to PCI-DSS, DPA or any client-specific 
security requirements. 
Notable approaches deployed by some of these 
organisations include implementation of policy for 
mobile devices (for recording, storage and transmission), 
portable media declaration and encryption, aiding 
forensic investigation, shifting of users from role-based 
access to command-based access.
14 PwC - DSCIPrivacy
Organisations are accountable for data collection and 
its use. Accountability is emerging as a fundamental 
privacy concept. The onus must lie on organisations 
handling and protecting personal information, rather 
than transferring the responsibility of data collection 
and usage to the individual, through complex notices, 
choices and consent. The revisions in privacy regulations 
globally, have put a lot of emphasis on accountability. In 
India, the framework for creating a privacy bill released 
by the Planning Commission also emphasises on the 
accountability principle.  For organisations, this means 
having a comprehensive privacy programme in place, 
which is based on a well-defined privacy strategy or a 
policy and the programme is implemented across the 
organisation, with appropriate monitoring and oversight 
mechanisms in place in order to check non-compliances 
and performance. This is somewhat similar to the ways by 
which information security is designed and implemented 
in the organisations today. To build such an organisational 
privacy competence requires privacy standards, practices 
and frameworks on which such organisations can build 
their privacy programme.
Framework for privacy implementation 
Organisations across the globe are governed by either 
geographic, industry vertical or function-specific privacy 
legislation or regulations. Absence of global standards 
in privacy has led to organisations developing and 
maintaining their privacy program in conformance to 
regulatory requirements. Some of them have also started 
using DSCI Privacy Framework (DPF) to administer and 
manage their privacy initiatives. Most user organisations 
that have global operations or are  serving global clients 
based  , have implemented a global policy and adopted best 
practices, guidelines and standards when it comes to the 
collection, use, disclosure, access, storage, retention and 
protection of personal information. Some of them have also 
started using the DSCI Privacy Framework (DPF) in order 
to administer and manage their privacy initiatives. 
Visibility over personal information
In order achieve compliance with corporate privacy 
policies and privacy laws that an organisation is 
subjected to, it is important to have visibility over the 
personal information dealt by the organisation. Few organisations have developed structured processes and 
perform exercises to learn which functions, processes and 
relationship handle personal information. Use of global 
privacy assessment processes and tools, helps companies 
to define proper methods for assessing the ways by which 
personal information (PI) is collected , stored, processed 
and transmitted, both in online and offline environment.
Organisations, after gaining visibility, classify the 
personal information into various sub categories such as 
PII (Personal Identifiable Information), SPDI (Sensitive 
Personal Data or Information), PFI (Personal Financial 
Information), PHI (Personal Health Information) etc. 
depending on applicable regulatory requirements. 
Data lifecycle management processes are instituted for 
managing the visibility of customer PI. Data flow maps 
are created for various business lines and functions which 
describe the flow of personal information within and 
outside the organisation.
Organisations are moving 
towards identifying Personal 
Information and classifying it 
for commensurate protection.
Organisations not only collect PI from their customers and 
clients, but also from their employees for the purposes 
of employment and the visibility scope exercise mostly 
covers this aspect as well.
Privacy policy and processes
Organisations have implemented the privacy policy based 
on the global privacy principles such as  section 43A of 
the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008, the EU Data Protection 
Directive,  the UK Data Protection Act, and other country-
specific privacy laws. Based on the privacy policy, 
organisations have framed well-defined privacy processes, 
guidelines and standards.
The purpose of the Privacy policy is to communicate 
organisation’s commitment for privacy protection to 
relevant stakeholders. It also defines organisation’s role, 
whether of Data Controller or of Data Processor. This 
helps them in including the relevant privacy principles in 
Note:  Nominations received in the DSCI Excellence Awards under the Privacy category were mostly received from the 
IT and business process outsourcing (BPO) industry, and therefore the leading practices described in this section mostly 
reflect the industry’s environment.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            15their policy based on the role. Some organisations have 
also built separate privacy policy for its employees.  
The policy also mentions organisation’s effort to safeguard 
personal information dealt with by it. Organisations are 
reducing the privacy risks by the combined use of privacy 
policy and contractual terms to create accountability in 
the form of transparent, enforceable commitments to 
responsible data handling.  
Privacy organisation and relationship
A few organisations have a dedicated data privacy office 
headed by a chief privacy officer, who is accountable for 
privacy assurance to clients globally and responsible for 
data protection and privacy aspects across the organisation. 
Each organisational unit has its responsibility for ensuring 
privacy. While the strategic group is primarily responsible 
for setting privacy goals and objectives, the tactical 
layer converts the finalized goals into specific roles and 
responsibilities and the operational team implements 
privacy initiatives and projects. Few companies have 
integrated data privacy policy and procedures as part of 
ISMS suite. 
Organisations are slowly transitioning to having dedicated 
privacy resources, drifting away from conventional trend 
of security professionals playing dual role of security and 
privacy.  This brings to the fore its emerging importance 
in the organisation.  
Regulatory compliance intelligence
The regulatory landscape in today’s environment 
demands a robust organisational structure in order to 
address the dynamic challenges. Organisations have 
addressed this by creating a dedicated structure for 
governance, compliance and risk. The legal services 
function within these companies keeps themselves 
abreast of all changes in regulations and compliance-
related issues. The internal audit function also conducts 
periodic reviews in order to ensure that the compliance 
requirements are met.  
Regulatory compliance intelligence in such firms is 
also strengthened by utilizing services of law firms and 
harping on information from open sources. Active external 
collaborations with organisations such as DSCI and 
International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) 
also help in building RCI capabilities of organisations.Privacy contract management
To continuously maintain trust amongst stakeholders and 
create accountability within an extended environment, 
privacy contracts are signed with clients, service providers 
and internal customers. These contracts are documented 
in line with the requirements for compliance with 
legislations, regulations and contractual obligations as is 
applicable in different geographies.
Contracts help to carry out data processing of personal 
and sensitive personal data strictly as per the terms and 
conditions stipulated by the clients and for no other 
purposes. Organisations are ensuring that they include 
privacy specific clauses in their contracts and agreements 
for sharing liabilities. The specific clauses are built in line 
with the role organisation is playing - data controller or 
data processor.
Self-assessments are being 
carried out by organisations 
based on the privacy principles 
applicable on them and their 
role as data controller and 
data processor
The data privacy office, in some organisations, 
maintains an inventory of the liability conditions that 
an organisation incorporates in the contractual terms. 
Formal disciplinary action is warranted when non-
compliance takes place.
Monitoring and incident management
Organisations have well-defined systems to address 
privacy incidents. Incidents of privacy violations, security 
weaknesses, misuse of IT resources, violation of policies 
and procedures are being reported without any delay to the 
online security incident management systems. Employees 
and contractors are empowered to report incidents and 
prevent further attempts or damage. The learning’s from 
such privacy incidents helps the management to take 
sufficient steps in order to ensure that effective privacy 
controls have been implemented or re-established to 
minimise the occurrence of such incidents. 
16 PwC - DSCIContractual compliances are also monitored by 
performing third-party assessments. 
Information access and usage
Properly managed access control policies exist in most 
companies in order to protect sensitive personal data, 
along with IPR, trade secrets and software code designs, 
in line with the classification level. These companies 
employ role-based access control lists and access review 
processes such as quarterly employment verification 
and business need validation to ensure that superfluous 
accesses are removed. Well- defined logical and physical 
access controls are deployed in order to prevent breach of 
privacy information at various levels.
Organisations also have built capabilities to ensure that 
the personal information is used only for the purpose 
initially determined and communicated to the individuals. 
Periodic reviews and audits, both internal and external, 
are conducted to ensure that actual usage does not deviate 
from the purpose of usage. 
Privacy awareness and training 
Most businesses give utmost importance to include 
a mandatory privacy education programme for 
employees and have implemented appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to safeguard personal 
information. Awareness sessions are designed through a 
collaborative approach with cross-functional work 
groups. Training courses and awareness programmes 
are designed, keeping in mind the client requirements 
for security and privacy, the emerging threat landscape, 
existing business risks statutory provisions mandated by 
international laws and standards.
Personal information security
Adequate controls are established to ensure the PI 
is secured. This includes required administrative, 
technical and physical safeguards. Various tools and 
solutions are used by the organisations to secure PI at 
rest, PI in Transit and PI during processing.
The lifecycle of data management is followed and 
requisite security controls are built to protect PI at 
all stages. The destruction / disposal of PI follow the 
information classification and handling procedure or 
the customer mandated requirements, as applicable.
The Security Policy and Procedures pertaining to 
organisational data are also applicable to PI protection.
By creating multiple layers of defense through physical 
security, intrusion prevention systems, firewalls, 
DMZ, VPNs, server hardening, logical access controls, 
application compliance and data encryption direct 
attacks on critical systems containing PI are arguably 
prevented to some extent.
                       Leading industry practices in security and privacy            17About the Awards
In line with its objective to raise the level of security and 
privacy of IT and BPO service providers in order to assure 
their clients and other stakeholders that India is a secure 
destination for global sourcing and also promote data 
protection in domestic industry segments like Banking, 
Telecom, e-commerce and e- governance, DSCI instituted 
the ‘DSCI Excellence Awards’ in 2011 to annually 
recognize and honour organisations and individuals who 
have shown high level of preparedness and  have excelled 
in the area of information security and privacy. 
Objectives of the Awards
The objectives of DSCI Excellence Awards are as follows: DSCI Excellence Awards 
•	Recognition & Honour:  Recognize, honour and 
reward organisations and individuals who have taken 
strategic, proactive and innovative security and privacy 
efforts to help the organisation address real risks, 
build resilience, increase trustworthiness and create 
a conducive environment for doing business and thus 
enable the organisation to harness data protection as a 
lever for business growth.
•	Elevate the role of Security function: Highlight the 
importance of security function and its contribution in 
the overall business ecosystem of an organisation.
•	Awareness and knowledge: Bring about awareness 
towards the need for Information Security and privacy 
within organisations and society at large.
Categories for DSCI Excellence Awards ar
Write to awards@dsci.in or 
visit www.dsci.in for more details.Security
• Security in organisation
* Banking
* Telecom
* e-Governance
* e-commerce
* IT Services large and SME
* BPO large and SME
• Security leader of the year
• Emerging information security 
product company
Privacy
• Privacy in 
organisation
• Privacy leader of 
the yearCorporate segment Law enforcement segment
Capacity 
building
• State police  or 
investigation 
agency
Investigation
• India cyber cop 
of the year
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the 
value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 
158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are 
committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and 
advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, 
having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, 
Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  
For more information about PwC India’s service 
offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer 
to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate 
legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for 
further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcAbout PwC
Satyavati Berera*
Tel: +91 124 330 6011
Email: satyavati.berera@in.pwc.com
Sivarama Krishnan
Tel: +91 124 330 6018
Email: sivarama.krishnan@in.pwc.com
Siddharth Vishwanath
Tel: +91 22 6669 1559
Email: siddharth.vishwanath@in.pwc.com
Arup Sen
Tel: +91 22 6669 1078
Email: arup.sen@in.pwc.com
Harpreet Singh
Tel: +91 124 330 6012
Email: harpreet.singh@in.pwc.com
Kumar Dasgupta
Tel: +91 22 6669 1341
Email: kumar.dasgupta@in.pwc.com
Manpreet Singh Ahuja
Tel: +91 124 330 6021
Email: manpreet.singh.ahuja@in.pwc.com
Neeraj Gupta
Tel: +91 124 330 6010
Email: p.neeraj.gupta@in.pwc.com
Sanjay Dhawan
Tel: +91 80 4079 7003
Email: sanjay.dhawan@in.pwc.com
Tapan Ray
Tel: +91 22 6669 1204
Email: tapan.ray@in.pwc.com
*National Practice Leader (RAS)
About DSCI
DSCI is a focal body on data protection in India, set-up 
as an independent self-regulatory organisation (SRO) 
by the National Association of Software and Services 
Companies (NASSCOM), to promote data protection, 
develop security and privacy best practices and 
standards and encourage the Indian industry segments 
to implement the same.
DSCI is engaged with the Indian IT and BPO industry, 
their clients worldwide, banking and telecom sectors, 
industry associations, data protection authorities and 
other government agencies in different parts of the 
world. It conducts industry-wide surveys and publishes 
reports, organises data protection awareness seminars, 
workshops, projects, interactions and other necessary 
initiatives for outreach and public advocacy. DSCI 
is focused on capacity building of law enforcement 
agencies for combating cyber crimes in the country and 
towards this, it operates several cyber labs across India 
to train police officers, prosecutors and judicial officers 
in cyber forensics. 
Public advocacy, thought leadership, awareness and 
outreach and capacity building are the key words with 
which DSCI continues to promote and enhance trust 
in India as a secure global sourcing hub, and promote 
data protection in the country. 
Copyright © 2013 DSCI. All rights reserved.
Disclaimer
This document contains information that is Intellectual Property of DSCI. DSCI expressly disclaims to the maximum limit permissible by law, all warranties, 
express or implied, including, but not limiting to implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. DSCI disclaims 
responsibility for any loss, injury, liability or damage of any kind resulting from and arising out of use of this material/information or part thereof. Views 
expressed herein are views of DSCI and/or its respective authors and should not be construed as legal advice or legal opinion. Further, the general availability 
of information or part thereof does not intend to constitute legal advice or to create a Lawyer/ Attorney-Client relationship, in any manner whatsoever.Vinayak Godse
Tel: +91-11-26155071
Email: vinayak.godse@dsci.in
Rahul Jain
Tel: +91 11 26155070
Email: rahul.jain@dsci.in
Rahul Sharma
Tel: +91 11 26155071
Email: rahul.sharma@dsci.in
www.linkedin.com/company/data-security-council-of-india             www.twitter.com/DSCI_CONNECTwww.facebook.com/DSCI.CONNECTYou can connect with us on: 
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
MS 33 - Month 2013 NameOfTheReport.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
