Title: pwc_foreign-banks-in-india
Date Published: 2013-12-17 10:29:30+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_foreign-banks-in-india.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Foreign 
banks in 
India
At an 
inflection
www.pwc.in
Contents  
The story so far   p4/Results of the survey   p17/Appendices  p31
When the history of our times is written, it is unlikely to be kind to banks. The global financial 
crisis and the large-scale downward adjustments to the lifestyles of many in the West has 
tarnished the image of banks and eroded the foundation on which these institutions were 
built- public trust. 
And yet, the banking system not only survives, it manages to pull itself together to fulfil the 
enhanced expectations from ever more vigilant and demanding stakeholders. Some of the 
largest banks in the world learn lessons in humility as capital and compliance standards seem 
constantly inadequate to stand up to the aggressive benchmarks set by regulators to restore 
confidence in their banks, and possibly themselves. 
India, as one of the rising stars of the pre-crisis global economy has seen a stable rise in its 
banking sector. It has been one slow and steady trend post the opening of the economy and 
the first wave of banking reforms in the 1990s. Foreign banks were earlier high-end service 
providers and employers of choice for the Indian elite. Yet, they have now transformed to 
somewhat blend in with the local landscape, experimenting with products suited to the Indian 
way of living and enterprise, doing what they do best; providing cross-border borrowings, 
capital and access to global markets. Although the image of banks has not taken as severe a 
beating as in the West, the sensitivity of regulators to systemic risk issues and the alignment of 
regulatory regimes across the globe have resulted in challenges. 
In the above context, we set out to meet foreign banks in India for their views on the market 
environment, tax, legal and regulatory framework as well as use of technology and quality of 
human capital.
In our conversations, we felt a sense of relief at being in a well-regulated jurisdiction and also 
a sense of being overwhelmed with too many changes; in regulations, in taxation and in the 
changing competitive landscape. We sensed discomfort with commoditised business models 
and the lack of ability to differentiate due to prescriptive guidelines. We felt restlessness at the 
slow pace of growth forced by a strict branch licensing regime and inability to use inorganic 
means of growth. Local managements of most foreign banks seem acutely aware of the 
changing demands of the economy and the potential for growth in the SME or retail segments. 
Yet, the balancing act between home countries’ risk management and local regulator’s push for 
inclusion, with little flexibility on distribution models continues to be a deterrent. 
We were fortunate to have a majority of foreign banks present in India participate in this 
survey. The list of participants and the survey questionnaire are placed in Chapter III, 
alongwith relevant data. This is a representative sample. The survey responses were collected 
and compiled prior to the release of the final guidelines by RBI on local incorporation of 
foreign banks. Although the guidelines are voluntary for most foreign banks operating in 
India, we believe that the framework is likely to create an inflection point for foreign banks as 
the dialogue between regulators and industry on the subject progresses and finer details of 
implementation emerge.
Although a dispassionate analysis of the India opportunity or the India threat will show a 
long-term secular trend of growth ignoring short-term exuberance or pessimism, in reality, 
the foreign bank branches in India compete with other geographies for resource, capital and 
talent allocation. While the decision to stay or grow requires fervent championship within 
organisations, there are many instances of banks withdrawing from India on the back of 
minor or major shocks. In such cases, attempting to regain foothold and re-build credibility 
with regulators or clientele is not easy. On the other side, policymakers expecting long-
term commitment from global organisations have the responsibility to provide a somewhat 
predictable growth path that can make long-term view on the India business possible. Indeed, 
no one should have to be in India, they should want to be in India.
We are grateful to our survey participants. We believe this is the right time to engage in this 
dialogue. We also hope that the Indian economy and the foreign banks present in India will 
continue to grow and create a higher degree of trust and value for each other.  
We owe thanks to the team of young researchers working on this project. Their enthusiasm to 
explore the subject and find themes, global practices and interesting facts was inspiring. We 
do hope you will find the report useful.Foreword
Manoj K Kashyap 
Leader, Financial Services 
Shinjini Kumar 
Leader, Banking and Capital 
Markets 


4 PwCThe story so farChapter 1
Introduction
The story of foreign banks in India 
goes back to the 19th century when the 
colonial economy brought with it the need 
for modern banking services, uniform 
currency and remittances by British army 
personnel and civil servants. The earliest 
banking institutions, joint stock banks, 
agency houses and the presidency banks, 
established by the merchants during the 
East India Company regime largely catered 
to this growing need. While the agency 
houses and joint stock banks largely failed 
and disappeared, the three presidency 
banks would later merge to form the 
State Bank of India, India’s largest lender. 
British owned and controlled, these early 
banks may be considered India’s first 
‘foreign banks’. It was decades after their 
establishment that the first bank owned 
and controlled by Indians, the Allahabad 
Bank, would be established.
The opening of the Suez Canal in 1869, 
shift in the balance of global east-
west trade flows through Indian ports, 
introduction of the railroad and telegraph and other infrastructure improvements, all 
contributed to growing interconnectivity 
of the Orient with the Occident, as the 
colonial powers of Europe spread across 
Asia and Africa. This was followed by 
a phase of numerous Indian or foreign 
banks coming up to service different 
segments of the economy; a landscape 
described by Lord Curzon as “some old 
fashioned sailing ship, divided by solid 
wooden bulkheads into separate and 
cumbersome compartments.”
Milestone events for banking in India such 
as the passing of the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) Act, 1934, the creation of the central 
bank in 1935, bank nationalisation in 1969 
and 1980 did not impact foreign banks 
much. They adapted well to the changing 
economy and retained their niche as 
service providers and employers of the 
elite; bringing capital, innovation and best 
practices from their home countries.
The first phase of banking reforms, 
triggered by recommendations of the 
Narasimhan Committee in 1991 and the 
licensing of the new private sector banks 
through the next two decades inaugurated 
an era of change. Meanwhile, the 
opening-up of the economy to increased 
participation by foreign players created 
greater opportunities for foreign banks 
to work with their multinational clients 
in India. In the more recent past, foreign 
banks have followed Indian corporate 
entities in their outbound expansions.
The survival of the banking system 
in India through the financial crisis 
has demonstrated its strengths and 
most foreign banks present in India 
believe that India is a market with 
undeniable potential. However, like their 
predecessors, they continue to look for the 
best possible role they can play amidst the 
challenging political economy, heightened 
competition and changing financial 
services regulations
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     5Foreign banks in India today:  
A snapshot
As of March 2013, there are 43 foreign 
banks from 26 countries operating 
as branches and 46 banks from 22 
countries operating as representative 
offices. Although the discussion around 
differential licensing is still nascent, there 
is one foreign bank present as a credit card 
issuer with limited banking licence. In 
addition, a number of foreign banks have 
also entered India via the NBFC route, 
while a considerable number have set up 
captive centres in the country. 
Foreign banks present in India as 
representative offices often have 
correspondent banking relationships 
with domestic banks and provide a 
useful platform for foreign banks to 
access opportunities for foreign currency 
lending to Indian corporate and financial 
institutions. 
Foreign banks have less than 1% of the 
total branch network but about 7% of the 
total banking sector assets and a sizeable 
11% of profits. With 334 branches in all, 
the share of foreign bank branches is less 
than 1%. (Exhibit 1 and 2)
Exhibit 2: Foreign bank branches by population centre
Source: Bank Branch Statistics, Database on the Indian Economy, RBIExhibit 1: Foreign banks’ share of banking assets and profits
Foreign banks Public 
sector banks Private 
sector banks 
Number of banks 43 26 20 
Number of branches 327 75,779 16,001 
Share of deposits 4% 77% 19% 
Share of assets 6% 74% 20% 
Share of off-balance sheet assets 63% 18% 19%
Source: Database on the Indian Economy, a profile of banks 2012-13, RBIForeign banks in pre-
independence India
Foreign banks in India today, such as 
Standard Chartered Bank and HSBC, 
found their roots in financing the 
growing trade between Asia and the 
rest of the world. Traditional trade 
items at the time were  cotton from 
Mumbai, indigo and tea from Kolkata, 
rice from Burma, sugar from Java, 
tobacco from Sumatra, hemp from 
Manila and silk from Yokohama, all 
flowing to the west through Indian 
ports, making India an important 
destination for these banks.
Standard Chartered Bank’s 
antecedent, the Chartered Bank of 
India opened an office in Calcutta in 
1858, after receiving a Royal Charter 
from Queen Victoria. The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
(HSBC), present in pre-independence 
India through branches, took a 
major inorganic step in 1959 when 
it acquired the erstwhile Mercantile 
Bank in India. The Comptoir 
d’Escompte de Paris, which would 
later become one of the entities to 
form BNP Paribas, started operations 
in Calcutta in 1860, and represented 
the French as the second nationality to 
have a major banking presence in the 
country after the British. 
Major American banking companies 
were at the time restricted by law 
from operating outside the US. The 
relaxation of these laws paved the way 
for the global expansion of American 
banks in the early 20th century. 
Citibank, or as it was known then, 
The National City Bank of New York, 
entered India in 1902, and JP Morgan, 
which had ambitions of entering India 
as early as 1902, did so in 1922 via 
an ownership stake in the Calcutta 
merchant banking firm Andrew Yule 
and Co. Ltd. 
Banks with one branch Banks with 2-19 branches Banks with more than 
20 branches
6 PwC“Opening up to foreign banks and 
other financial firms and to foreign 
direct investment in the financial 
sector has many potential benefits. 
These include the introduction 
of financial innovations and 
sophisticated financial instruments 
by foreign financial firms, added 
depth in domestic financial 
markets due to foreign inflows, 
and more efficiency in the domestic 
banking sector through increased 
competition.”
- Raghuram Rajan Committee 
Report on Financial Sector 
Reforms, 2008For most foreign banks, their relationship 
with Indian corporate clients is pivoted 
around their ability to provide access 
to global capital and debt markets. 
Although data relating to individual 
bank’s exposure to India through 
onshore credit and offshore ECB and 
trade finance is not available, taking the 
total ECB data as a proxy for offshore 
exposure, it is interesting to see the 
consistent upward trendline for external 
debt. Understandably, the onshore 
exposure and its growth are related to the 
performance of the economy and market 
share of foreign banks. (Exhibit 3)
Although foreign banks largely operate at 
higher levels of efficiency and maintain 
low net NPA ratios, due to exposure to 
the same group of clients, the risks are 
co-related. Interestingly, one of the biggest 
challenges facing foreign banks is client 
selection. Although the Indian economy 
has grown at a healthy rate, there are 
only a handful of Indian corporates 
with credible governance processes 
and global reputation required to pass 
muster with the credit divisions of these 
banks. Increasingly, such clients are also 
being pursued by domestic banks with 
larger single obligor limits and greater 
autonomy to take decisions locally. This 
automatically segments foreign banks 
as ‘niche’ service providers which often 
collides with the ‘universal banking’ policy 
regime.Foreign banks: Evolution and 
approaches to banking in India
Due to the local branch regime and 
the operating model of choice, foreign 
banks have, for the large part, remained 
niche players, focussing on trade 
finance, external commercial borrowing, 
wholesale lending, investment banking 
and treasury activities. Some large foreign 
banks have focussed on capturing the 
retail market but have  remained confined 
to the high end of private banking and 
wealth management, while a few others 
have created valuable niche offerings in 
the areas of transaction banking, cash 
management and remittance products. 
With India emerging as a major 
Information Technology (IT) service 
provider in the 21st century, many 
global  banks set up business processing 
offices (BPO) in India; primarily to take 
advantage of the low-cost technology 
and availability of English-speaking 
employees. Some foreign banks also 
created centres of excellence that 
provided services at the higher end of the 
value chain. Although not in scope for 
the present survey, these operations of 
foreign banks have created attractive and 
large-scale employment opportunities 
for educated Indians and have been an 
interesting part of India’s economic, social 
and cultural landscape.
With the growing importance of IT to 
banks, foreign bank BPO centres in India have expanded the scope of their services, 
providing data analytics, and data-backed 
solutions, that contribute to the efficiency 
and profitability of these banks globally. 
Liberalisation of Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI) norms for financial services 
provided further strategic entry routes for 
foreign banks in the form of NBFCs that 
could provide specialised non-banking 
financial services such as stock broking, 
merchant banking, leasing and finance 
and others to specific segments of the 
economy.  
Foreign banking groups present in India as 
branches also took this opportunity to set 
up separate entities to provide specialised 
services. This led to the formation of 
financial conglomerates or large franchises 
with multiple entities. In the absence 
of flexibility on expanding the branch 
network, the lending NBFCs also created 
an opportunity for foreign banks targeting 
retail clients to create the level of outreach 
required for their operations. 
However, the 2006 guidelines on Financial 
Regulation of Systemically Important 
NBFCs and Banks’ Relationship With 
Them and subsequent regulations have 
significantly limited this opportunity by 
stipulating consolidated capital market 
limits and otherwise frowning upon what 
regulators consider to be ‘regulatory 
arbitrage’ between a bank and an NBFC 
engaged in an activity permitted in the 
bank. 
Exhibit 3: Both offshore and onshore books have grown, but at a different pace
Assets of foreign banks in India External commercial borrowings
Source: Database on the Indian Economy, RBI
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     7Foreign banks: Bringing global 
innovation standards to banking 
practice in India
In addition to setting up the first 
formal banking institutions in India, 
foreign banks have made considerable 
contribution to the banking sector over the 
years by bringing capital and global best 
practices as well as grooming talent.   
Foreign banks have been innovative in 
identifying specific needs of the market, 
creating products, and developing 
organisational constructs. A good example 
is the cash management offering in the 
early 1990s, that targeted inefficiencies 
in cash collection and check processing, 
identified as a specific issue for the Indian 
market. Built around this were products 
such as Citicash and Citicheck.  More 
importantly, the bank had a dedicated 
division in the organisation to address 
the needs of this market and after a 
successful stint in India, the product 
was successfully introduced in other 
emerging markets. There are many such 
examples, including securitisation, foreign 
exchange derivatives, travellers’ cheques, 
channel financing and credit scorecards. 
Similarly, these banks often introduced 
risk management practices from their 
countries and were took steps to become 
part of the local cultural and community 
landscape through their initiatives 
relating to corporate social responsibility, 
sustainability, and contribution to 
protection of heritage buildings, local arts 
and crafts.
Prior to 1990s, foreign banks easily 
distinguished themselves vis-a-vis public 
sector banks. They used technology 
to their advantage to create and often 
maintain lead in premium services such 
as integrated cash management, private 
banking, 24-hour phone banking, internet 
banking, securitisation, forex and interest 
rate derivatives trading, risk management 
and Know Your Customer (KYC) software 
solutions. The first Automated Teller 
Machine (ATM) in the country, for 
instance, was set up by HSBC in 1987. 
This focus on innovation helped foreign 
banks build profitable businesses with a 
relatively high share of investment and fee 
income. (Exhibit 4)In the early stages through expatriate 
employees, and later integrating local 
talent in a big way, foreign banks 
trained and nurtured talent in India. In 
the process, foreign bank executives in 
India have also become a rich source of 
talent for their global banking networks. 
An established global network, ability 
to specialise, gain access to latest 
developments in banking technology 
and services, and the opportunity to gain 
international experiences were key factors 
contributing to their  talent retention. 
The banking landscape changed 
dramatically post the entry of new 
private sector banks. Not only did foreign 
banks face competition from the new 
private sector banks that were often 
run by their own ex-employees with 
the opportunity to take quick decisions 
and upscale in a fostering environment 
using local technology, but also from 
some of the public sector banks that did 
well on the back of what was then called 
‘computerisation’ and a better way of 
engaging with the customer.
Exhibit 4: High contribution of investment and fee income to revenues compared to 
domestic banks
Advances Investments Fee-based
Source: Database on the Indian Economy, RBI
8 PwC“I would love to own a big bank in 
India.” -  Jamie Dimon, CEO, JP 
Morgan Chase
– Economic Times, 20112005: First roadmap for foreign 
banks in India
One and half decades post liberalisation, 
a robust regulatory framework governing 
foreign bank presence in the country 
became imperative. Twelve new private 
sector banks had been given licences 
under the guidelines issued in 1993 and 
2001. Beginning with the voluntary 
merger of Times Bank with HDFC, 
consolidation of the newly licensed banks 
had also started. ICICI and HDFC Bank 
had established themselves as iconic 
Indian brands with scale and distribution 
power. Many public sector banks had been 
listed and the adoption of technology 
powered by Indian technology giants 
had changed the face of Indian banking 
considerably, putting them on a profitable 
growth path for the near future.    
On 28 February 2005, the RBI released 
a roadmap for the presence of foreign 
banks in India along with guidelines on 
ownership and governance in private 
sector banks. This was indeed a watershed 
event as it provided the first ever 
documented policy on foreign banks in the 
country, and for the first time, spurred a 
debate about the present and future role 
of foreign banks in India.
It was also no coincidence that the 
guidelines on private sector bank 
ownership and foreign bank roadmap 
were released together. The press release 
prefacing both documents makes an 
interesting point about the ‘need for 
enabling shareholding higher than 10% 
to facilitate restructuring in the banking 
system and consolidation.’ Ironically, 
that debate remains as relevant today as 
in 2005, despite an Act of Parliament in 
December 2012 having paved the way for 
enhanced voting rights upto 26%. 
The new private sector banks also 
spurred an opportunity for foreign 
banks and investors to participate in the 
Indian banking sector through equity 
investments. For example, ING hiked its 
stake in ING Vysya Bank to 44% in 2002, 
up from 20%, HSBC acquired  14.71% 
stake in UTI Bank (today known as 
Axis Bank) in 2003, Temasek Holdings 
acquired  5% stake in ICICI Bank in 2003 
and later increased it to 9%, Rabobank 
acquired 20% stake in Yes Bank in 2004 
and HSBC acquired 4.74% stake in Yes 
Bank in 2008.The discussion paper proposed a gradual 
increase in the presence and activities of 
foreign banks in two phases. The period 
from 2005 to 2009 was to be utilised 
to strengthen the domestic banking 
sector. Special emphasis was laid on 
enabling Indian banks to compete in the 
international arena. Foreign banks were to 
be encouraged to grow their presence in 
the country post 2009. 
The promised growth path and the 
perception of India as an emerging 
economic power attracted many banks to 
set up presence in India in the period after 
the roadmap.
In many ways, developments during this 
period and subsequent to it bear out the 
not-so-popular belief that despite its 
closed policies, India remained exposed to 
global turmoil. While the strict regulatory 
regime around derivatives and risk 
transfer prevented a sub-prime type of 
crisis, the boom in the pre-crisis period 
was not very different from the good times 
elsewhere.  
Remarkably, while many foreign banks 
have set up branches in India, few have 
followed a consistent growth path over 
the long-term. One case in point is Bank 
of America, which sold a successful retail 
business in India to ABN AMRO Bank 
in 2001 as a part of its global strategy 
(consequent upon merger of Bank of 
America and  Nations Bank) to withdraw 
from international retail operations. In 
2001, RBS took over ABN AMRO Bank 
and the business was rechristened in 
India as RBS. More recently, this business 
has been sold to Ratnakar Bank Limited 
(RBL), a domestic bank. The management 
of RBL Bank has many of the old Bank of 
America senior personnel, thus marking  a full circle. This is a good example of 
the changing dynamics of the market, 
depending on local and international 
conditions. 
American Express Bank’s exit from all but 
the card business, Barclays Bank’s  foray 
in retail and subsequent exit from that 
business and some of the other banks’ 
experiments with SME lending and exit 
have also attracted attention to the flux in 
the non corporate banking space. While 
the ability to enter and exit businesses 
is an integral part of strategic business 
decisions, in India, such decisions are 
often difficult or time-consuming to 
implement due to a lack of direct and 
unambiguous regulatory guidance. 
Recent news about the surrender of their 
bank licences by Morgan Stanley and 
UBS  have further added to the impression 
that India presents unique challenges 
to foreign banks. During the survey, 
most banks referred to the difficulty 
in fulfilling regulatory expectations 
on branches in unbanked areas and 
agricultural advances. Most banks were 
also supportive of priority sector lending 
in principle but felt that a flexible strategy 
to support agricultural lending through 
established institutions would be practical. 
So would the inclusion of infrastructure 
and export finance within priority areas. 
Meanwhile, many banks that came to 
India after 2005 awaited further clarity on 
the roadmap, maintaining their presence 
and evaluating opportunities. 
After much anxiety resulting from 
regulatory discussions around ring fencing 
and local incorporation, the RBI released 
a discussion paper on presence of foreign 
banks in India in January 2011.

Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     9“Among some circles, a doubt is 
sometimes expressed as to whether 
the regulatory environment in 
India is liberal in regard to the 
functioning of the foreign banks 
and whether the approach towards 
foreign participation in the Indian 
banking system is consistent 
with the liberalised environment. 
Undoubtedly, the facts indicate that 
regulatory regime followed by the 
RBI in respect of foreign banks is 
non-discriminatory, and is, in fact, 
very liberal by global standards.”
 – V Leeladhar, former Deputy 
Governor, Reserve Bank of India, 
2007“In view of the current global 
financial market turmoil, there 
are uncertainties surrounding the 
financial strength of banks around 
the world. Further, the regulatory 
and supervisory policies at the 
national and international levels 
are under review. In view of this, it 
is considered advisable, for the time 
being, to continue with the current 
policy and procedures governing the 
presence of foreign banks in India.”
 – Dr D Subbarao, former 
Governor, Reserve Bank of India, 
Annual Policy Statement for the 
Year 2009-10The financial crisis of 2008 and 
impact on foreign banks
In the aftermath of the financial crisis 
of 2008, the attention of multinational 
banks, particularly of those with a large 
presence in the west, turned to their home 
countries as they struggled with sudden 
liquidity problems, many of them going 
to the brink. The rapid collapse of few of 
the most respectable global investment 
banks and the domino effect on the global 
financial system was dramatic enough 
to cause tectonic shifts in the banking 
landscape. 
Although the crisis was truly global in 
nature, its effects on different economies 
were varied in impact as well as timing. 
After the crisis, governments and 
regulators launched a series of measures 
to restore their financial systems. This 
period also saw greater collaboration 
among regulators on the global platform 
and greater consensus on systemic risks, 
financial stability and the challenges of too 
big to fail financial institutions.Changes in global liquidity conditions 
as governments embarked on stimulus 
programmes created a fresh set of 
challenges and opportunities. The survival 
of the Indian economy in the immediate 
aftermath of the crisis had interesting 
consequences for this liquidity seeking 
attractive returns. After 2009, India 
actually granted licences to 13 new foreign 
banks to commence business in India. 
(Exhibit 5)
Western banks, battered by the global 
financial crisis and regulatory measures 
such as increased capital requirements and 
the pressure to de-leverage their balance 
sheets had to re-evaluate their investments 
across emerging markets. Some responded 
by curtailing their operations, selling 
off businesses and assets and trimming 
their exposures to countries increasingly 
perceived as non-core. Others withdrew 
all together, leaving behind advisory and 
capital markets activities that were not 
capital-intensive.
For most foreign banks, India accounts 
for a minor part of their parents’ books. 
Examining the India exposure of foreign 
banks in the country, 31 foreign banks 
had less than 1% of their global assets in 
India whereas Barclays, HSBC, Standard 
Chartered and Citibank have India 
exposures between of 1 to 5 % of their 
parent’s asset book (this is the in-country 
share as offshore exposure data is not 
available in public domain)*. This impacts 
the ability of the champions of long-term 
growth in India to build consensus within 
the larger organisation, often losing 
ground to the faster growing economies.
In some ways, the reaction of the foreign 
banks post-crisis bears out the worst fears 
that regulators in emerging economies 
have regarding the behaviour of foreign 
financial institutions as fair-weather friends. Although the withdrawal of 
foreign banks from India has not created 
a dramatic impact unlike in the Asian 
or Latin American crisis, the memory of 
banks withdrawing from the economy 
lingers with regulators and the public.  
Consequently it is often not easy to re-
enter the market.
Of course, in the Indian context, due to 
specific Foreign Exchange Management 
Act (FEMA) and banking regulations 
restrictions on capital repatriation and 
liquidity management, the withdrawal 
was not disruptive. Nevertheless, this 
led to further tightening of liquidity 
and capital guidelines and prompted 
discussion around systemic risk 
management and local incorporation of 
foreign banks, eventually culminating 
in the discussion paper on presence of 
foreign banks in India in January 2011.
*Estimates based on individual bank’s financial 
statements, RBI data and PwC analysis
Exhibit 5: Branch licences granted to new and existing foreign banks in India
Branch licence granted New banks commencing operations
Source: Database on Indian Economy, RBI, PwC 
10 PwC“In India, the fallout from 
recent financial stress has likely 
contributed to greater vulnerability 
of corporate and bank balance 
sheets and a further downward 
revision of growth forecasts, 
which were already very low in the 
historical context. 
This reflects persistent supply 
constraints and slow progress on 
structural reforms. Despite weak 
demand, however, food prices will 
likely keep headline inflation close 
to double digits”
– IMF, Asia and Pacific region 
Economic Outlook Update, 
October 2013“Currencies and bonds in Brazil, 
India, Indonesia, South Africa 
and Turkey came under intense 
weakening pressure since May 
as their current account deficits 
persist, inflation remains elevated, 
and monetary policy room seems 
limited in the face of decelerating 
growth”
-IMF, Global Financial Stability 
Report, October 2013Does the 2011 discussion paper 
signal a new era?
The discussion paper began with an 
obituary to the second phase outlined 
in the 2005 roadmap. The onset of the 
financial crisis had distorted the world 
envisioned six years ago, into something 
new and uncertain. The RBI’s conservative 
stance and its successful defence of the 
Indian banking system in the face of 
the global meltdown created greater 
confidence in the system. The global 
financial crisis shattered the confidence 
in the ability of developed markets to 
regulate their global financial institutions. 
This created the need for emerging 
markets to protect their own markets 
from systemic risk of failure of global 
institutions. 
The paper dwelt on the benefits of 
ring-fencing of capital and liquidity 
in times of crisis and acknowledged 
that foreign banks would need some 
incentives to incorporate locally. Greater 
expectation of local risk management, 
data aggregation and reporting under 
the subsidiary mode and the enhanced 
role of local and independent directors 
in decision-making concerning the India 
subsidiary were detailed. Interestingly, the 
discussion paper did not propose the same 
framework for priority sector lending 
(PSL) for foreign bank subsidiaries, 
acknowledging their role as primary 
providers of export finance. It laid out 
a simpler PSL requirement, including 
mandatory financing to agriculture (10%) 
and small enterprises (10%), but allowing 
export to fulfil the remaining 20%.
The feedback to the paper was largely 
apprehensive in tone. What will the 
comfort letter mean? How will lack of 
parental rating impact? How will banks 
access the hinterland or distribute assets 
to agriculture sector or small enterprises? 
Will subsidiaries be asked to divest 
mandatorily? The answers were not 
immediate as the economic conditions 
began to change soon after.
Hitting the headwinds after 
2011-12
If there were any doubts regarding 
the continuation of the ‘coupling’ of 
economies, they have been dissipated by 
the events in the last couple of years. With 
a lag, the Indian economy also started 
showing the results of the slowdown and 
macroeconomic indicators caught up with 
some of the structural issues with the Exhibit 6: India- macroeconomic indicators in the post crisis era
GDP growth CPI CAD
Source: IMF, Database on the Indian Economy, RBIeconomy. This was somewhat expected 
as the increased liquidity from the 
developed economies initially buoyed up 
the emerging markets and the subsequent 
adjustments, coupled with slow recovery 
in the western markets began to play their 
course. (Exhibit 6)
For India, all this also came in the 
backdrop of an upcoming election, 
fiscal imprudence as well as negativity 
generated from widely reported 
retrospective changes in tax laws, 
rating downgrade fears and reports of 
violence and poor social and physical 
infrastructure.
 Another relevant event between the discussion paper and the final guidelines 
was the release of The Nair Committee 
Report on PSL in 2012. Marking a 
break in thinking, the committee 
recommended that Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary (WOS) of foreign banks be 
brought on par with domestic banks. 
Although recommendations of the Nair 
Committee were only partially accepted, 
foreign banks with more than 20 
branches in India were brought on par 
with domestic banks for PSL compliance 
purpose. However, banks with less than 20 
branches were allowed to continue with 
fulfilling 32% requirement largely through 
export finance.
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     11Global rebalancing of capital
Fast growth in global finance in the pre-
crisis era led to the emergence of really 
large banks, particularly in Europe. For 
instance, in many European countries, the 
asset size of the largest banks is greater 
than the GDP of the country. (Exhibit 7)
Hence, it is not surprising that the reform 
in Europe is leading to the deleveraging of 
these banks. Similarly, in the US, bailouts 
and subsequent attention on banks has 
limited the capacity of most banks for 
aggressive international expansion. 
While the European Union (EU) and the 
European Central Bank (ECB) are still to 
close the chapter on post reform banking 
regulations, clearly the discomfort with 
too-big-to-fail banks is here to stay.
On the other hand, many Asian economies 
and Australia were largely unaffected by 
the crisis, many having surplus capital 
that needs to find its way offshore. The oil-
producing Middle- Eastern countries have 
also weathered the storm well and have 
provided capital to many of the banks. 
Rebalancing of global capital, greater 
trade interconnectivity of Asia, Africa, 
Australia and the Middle East, migrating 
populations and geopolitical realignment  
are likely to lead to changes in the foreign 
bank landscape in India, and the window 
of opportunity to grow as a WOS may be 
an important strategic imperative in that 
context. 
This trend is evident from  the fact that 
of the 75 new bank branches granted to Scheme for subsidiarisation of 
foreign banks in India: Is it the 
end of the wait?
Given the backdrop of the 2014 
general elections and the uncertain 
macroeconomic environment, the 
timing for the release of the scheme for 
subsidiarisation could have been better. 
According to this document, foreign 
banks present in India prior to 2010 
will have the option to subsidiarise or 
continue to operate as branch. Given the 
macroeconomic and political condition as 
well as uncertainties of global economic 
recovery, this must be a welcome relief. 
To banks that gave an undertaking to 
convert into subsidiaries, the change in 
the economic environment must appear 
stark and the lack of flexibility, difficult. 
Also, some of the parameters described for 
mandatory conversion into subsidiary are 
somewhat subjective and therefore clarity 
will emerge with time. 
Interestingly, Indian banking regulation 
makes it mandatory for banks to transfer 
parts of profits to reserves. Repatriation 
of such profits to the head office requires 
RBI approval. Both before and after the 
financial crisis, regulations have been 
issued under FEMA and the Banking 
Regulation Act to restrict cross border 
movement of liquidity. These measures 
limit the likelihood of free capital 
repatriation to parent by branches. In 
countries with relative ease of capital 
movement, this is one of the important 
tenets driving the agenda on local 
incorporation.
The other genuine concern that regulators 
have developed based on experience is 
the dominance of the banking system by 
foreign banking organisations; thereby 
increasing vulnerability of the domestic 
financial system. This is apparent from the 
stated intent to curb growth beyond 15% 
of assets and 20% of capital dominance. 
However, the measures to curb further 
growth (specific approval for new 
capital infusion in WOS and limiting the 
number of branches of new banks) do not 
appear to incentivise the WOS mode as 
constraints apply to WOS growth and new 
banks, but not to existing banks operating 
in branch mode. 
And yet, the scheme creates an 
opportunity for foreign banks to grow in 
India in almost the same way as domestic 
banks. This makes it worth examining 
the possibilities and business impact 
of local incorporation. In the following 
sections, we examine some aspects of the 
new framework that is likely to unfold as 
the scheme is operationalised and clarity 
emerges on some of the other regulations 
in the pipeline. foreign banks since the financial crisis, 
approximately 40% are new foreign bank 
entrants. After the financial crisis, 13 new 
foreign banks have been granted licenses 
by the RBI, which include five Asian, four 
Australian and two European banks. 
Retail and inclusive banking vs 
differentiated banking
The discussion paper articulated the 
preference for retail banks over ‘niche’ 
banks. While in reality, only few foreign 
banks offer full suite retail services, due 
to the regulatory expectations, all foreign 
banks operating in India need to offer 
retail liability and basic banking products. 
In most countries, regulation for retail 
deposit accepting banks is more stringent 
than regulation for banks that offer limited 
facilities to non retail clients. In India, on 
the other hand, incentive (in the form of 
branch licences that are discretionary) is 
tagged to retail banking. 
In August 2013, the RBI released a 
discussion paper on banking structure in 
India, wherein, among other things, the 
discussion on differentiated licensing has 
been initiated. 
This will be an important step in the right 
direction to create the right structure for 
aspiring retail banks that are likely to grow 
as subsidiaries with large branch networks 
as against banks whose business models 
are suited to  niche activities with limited 
growth ambitions and limited capacity to 
create systemic risk.Exhibit 7: Banking assets vs GDP
US Eurozone Switzerland
GermanySource: The Banker, IMF, PwC analysisTotal assets of top 5 banks
GDP
France Spain GreeceJapan UK
12 PwC
Final guidelines
Minimum capital requirement INR 5 billion
Minimum CRAR 10%
Priority sector lending targets 40% with five year transition period 
Raising of funds in India Permitted to raise non-equity INR resources, may list in three years
Use of parent credit rating not permitted (except for custodial services and international operations), ‘letter of 
comfort’ required
Branch licensing At par treatment with domestic banks with some ‘restricted’ sensitive areas
Board of directors Minimum 50% Indian resident directors and minimum one third independent directors, minimum two-third 
non-executive directors
Unbanked and rural branches 25% branches in unbanked, rural areas
Mergers and acquisitions Foreign banks WOS may be permitted 
Taxation Specific provision created regarding applicability of section 50(B), transfer pricing, VAT,  service tax, 
deductibility of expenses on conversion and state stamp duty acts
Measure to control dominance Further growth may be restricted if foreign banks collectively achieve 20%of capital and reserves  (against 
current 16%) of the banking system and foreign bank branches achieve 20% of total assets (on and off 
balance sheet)  of the banking system.Summary of the RBI guidelines on WOS
1. Banks commencing business before Aug 2010 – Conversion optional
2. Banks commencing business after Aug 2010 –  Conversion mandatory on conditions being applicable
3. Future entrants – Principles of single mode of presence and reciprocity to continue for both branch and WOS mode 
of entry; in addition, if conditions are applicable, mandatory WOS 
Conditions 
• Bank home country gives preferential claim to domestic deposits in winding-up proceedings or has inadequate 
disclosure requirements or has unsatisfactory supervisory arrangements
• Bank has complex structures or is not widely held or is systemically important in the Indian banking sector
• Bank becomes ‘systemically important’ in India i.e. its total assets* comprise 0.25% or greater of total assets*  of the 
Indian banking sector 
*On balance and credit equivalent of off balance sheet
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     13Organic growth: The twin 
challenges of near national 
treatment and reciprocity
Under the current branch licensing 
regime, each branch location is approved 
by the regulators. In the last few years, 
foreign banks have found it difficult to 
get additional branches in metropolitan 
centres and have been able to find 
business opportunities in smaller centres. 
Yet, foreign bank branches remain 
concentrated in the metropolitan centres 
of Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai 
and Bangalore. Only eight foreign bank 
branches (out of 334) are located in 
the rural areas, as against 250 in the 
metropolitan areas. (Exhibit 8) 
The new scheme opens the field for 
foreign banks to access the automatic 
approval to open branches (except in 
specified sensitive areas). It also brings 
with it the challenge of managing the 
operating model of having 1:1 branch 
ratio between urban and other centres and 
having to branch out to unbanked areas 
with less than 9,999 people (often with 
little physical infrastructure).
Some of the foreign banks operating in 
India have the experience of banking 
in rural, semi-urban or inaccessible 
geographies in their own countries.  Some 
have successfully leveraged mobile or 
internet technology to completely cut out 
brick-and-mortar branches and attendant 
costs and constraints. 
Under Indian banking regulations, while 
distribution of assets is possible through 
agents, distribution of liability products 
requires creation of client touchpoint 
through branch or Banking Correspondent 
(BC), which must be within specified 
radius of 30 kms of the branch. As the 
competitiveness in the banking sector 
grows, there is likely to be increasing 
demand for liberalisation of norms in this 
area. It is interesting to bear in mind that 
in the long-term, the incentive in the form 
of brick-and-mortar branches may not 
remain an incentive.
Also, it is unclear how reciprocity will 
play out for foreign banks choosing to 
incorporate as WOS if Indian banks 
have not had the opportunity to grow in 
their home territories. The likelihood of 
bilateral agreements allowing preferential 
treatment will change the nature of 
foreign bank segment by allowing banks 
from countries with bilateral agreements 
to grow at a faster pace than that possible 
for foreign banks in general.Inorganic growth: Better 
visibility, but uncertain timeline
Inorganic growth opportunities via 
acquisitions will be important for foreign 
banks going forward, because they may 
find it difficult to build organically under 
the new branch licensing formula and 
also, because once consolidation in the 
banking sector kicks in, being excluded 
from inorganic opportunities could mean 
further competitive disadvantage.  
While the scheme does not provide full 
clarity on the timeline within which 
foreign banks may be allowed to acquire 
a bank, it signals clearly that such 
acquisition is possible in the near future. 
Unfortunately, for those banks that 
need to make a decision to incorporate 
in the short run, this lack of clarity is 
problematic.
Another important issue relating to 
inorganic growth is the misalignment 
of shareholding with voting rights. The 
Banking Regulation Amendment Law of 
December 2012 allowed for the alignment 
of shareholding with voting rights within 
the limit of 26%. However, the RBI 
circular on bank ownership continues to 
be in force with restriction on voting rights 
upto 10%. This makes acquiring control in 
a bank difficult. This also may be a reason 
for the unattractiveness of the option to 
dilute or list locally.
Incidentally, most banks that have gone 
through mergers and acquisitions globally 
have found it challenging to effect such 
mergers in India for their operating 
branches. Some banks have not been 
allowed to use branding consistent with 
new global branding, while others have 
found it hard to exit portfolios or buy India 
businesses of seller banks in the global 
transaction.
Banking and technology 
In the midst of rising costs and increasing 
regulatory and political pressure to 
expand banking access to rural areas, 
foreign banks are also experimenting 
with partnerships and the use of different 
forms of technology for providing banking Exhibit 8: Foreign bank branches by population centre
Source: Bank Branch Statistics, Database on the Indian Economy, RBI
services. Globally, banks have started to 
move beyond the branch, and in some 
cases, the ATM formats, and have begun to 
deploy banking services via channels that 
promote flexibility and mobility.  
Technology as value driver
On the distant horizon, disruptive 
technology seems to emerge as a 
challenger to the long-term sustainability 
of banking as the world has known it 
so far. Yet, in India, concerns around 
operational and systemic risk from non-
bank operators will continue to make 
banks important partners to innovative 
technology companies for mutual benefit. 
The regulatory preference for banks 
as better regulated and therefore safer 
vehicles for financial services will continue 
to work for banks for the foreseeable 
future. 
The current wave of technology 
integration in banking services has also 
been spurred by growing consumer 
expectations and fast adoption by a 
younger, more tech-savvy generation. 
A survey by PwC titled ‘ The New Digital 
Tipping Point’ , presents interesting trends 
about growing consumer appetites for 
banking through alternative channels 
across developed and emerging 
economies. For instance, on an average, a 
little over 50% of the consumers in India 
reported having used mobiles to purchase 
financial products, while 70% used the 
internet to do the same.  
While non-touch consumer acquisition 
continues to be constrained, many other 
technological capabilities, often developed 
for the uniquely Indian situation, are 
likely to help banks deal with the issue 
of growth. For example, banks and other 
non-bank players have started deploying 
white label ATMs and mobile Point 
of Sale (PoS) systems such as micro-
ATMs that can be operated by business 
correspondents, and provide basic 
banking services to the rural customers. 
Similarly, e KYC and the gradual 
convergence of KYC requirements across 
financial services intermediaries may lead 
to more sustainable customer acquisition 
models.
14 PwC
“ As major foreign banks specialise 
in the provision of a menu of 
sophisticated financial products and 
also facilitate in the flow of foreign 
capital, their larger presence will 
meet the requirements of a growing 
and vibrant economy.”
-Banking Structure in India: Way 
Forward, Reserve Bank of India 
Discussion Paper, 2013 The Bharat challenge or the 
Bharat opportunity?
India’s focus on financial inclusion and 
the growth pattern of the Indian economy 
makes it directionally clear that to grow 
significantly in India, banks will need 
to come up with a sound strategy for 
expanding the reach of financial services. 
Meanwhile, the differential licensing 
regime may open the window for foreign 
banks to bring their specialised service 
offerings and focus on their core business 
and clientele. This will, in many ways, 
also align the banking structure better 
with the nature of the Indian economy 
that tends to have demand for high-end 
global products as well as large, low-value, 
high-volume business. The push for the 
second wave of banking reforms will come 
from the critical need for funding large 
infrastructure projects on the one hand 
(hence developing a bond trading market) 
and providing simple access products to 
households on the other.
It will be interesting in that scenario to 
witness the growth of competition from 
domestic players in niche segments, 
where business models so far have been 
fairly standard and undifferentiated. 
Foreign banks can play a significant 
role in providing the capital, knowhow 
and the energy required to kickstart a 
differentiated banking sector with foreign 
and domestic (and maybe joint venture) 
entities that best matches the demand of 
the diverse Indian economy. In the retail banking space, there is a 
remarkable role reversal compared to the 
early years of post liberalisation, when 
private sector banks looked to foreign 
banks for best practices and human 
resources. Many of the new foreign banks 
now look to the new private sector banks 
for talent, particularly in the retail space 
and business models in the small business 
and agri lending space. 
Increasingly, the financial inclusion 
mandate will require creative thinking. 
Portfolio purchases, securitisation, 
customised risk models for the financially 
excluded market, non-branch distribution 
and origination formats will all require 
collaboration with innovative technology 
and payment solutions companies or 
other banks and financial institutions such 
as microfinance and non-bank finance 
companies. 
Amidst concerns of high inflation, lower 
growth, high Current Account Deficit 
(CAD) and threats of rating downgrade, it 
is an uncomfortable time to take long-term 
decisions on entity structure or growth. 
Yet, the long-term outlook on India, 
geo political realities and the likelihood 
of banking reforms make it difficult to 
stay away and wait. For foreign bankers 
leading big or small banking businesses in 
India, the heat in the global boardrooms 
is increasing, especially amidst talks of 
Chinese reforms, Indonesian growth or 
cost competitiveness of Philippines for 
BPO services.Increasing competition amidst shrinking 
growth, small pool of credit-worthy and 
well-governed clients, high incidence of 
financial crimes, concerns around data 
protection and malpractices, heightened 
responsibility for Anti Money Laundering 
(AML) compliance within a wider 
economy with high levels of unaccounted 
wealth and increasing cost of operations 
will continue to keep foreign banks 
operating in India on their toes.
Yet, this is just another stage in the long 
journey and partnership that these 
institutions have with this country of 
tremendous potential, diversity, colour 
and charm. As the foreign banks and 
the Indian economy adapt and change 
and diversify, the bonds will only grow 
stronger.
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     15Indonesia
Foreign banks share of banking sector assets – 32%
Financial literacy and accessibility mandates for domestic 
banks
Differential licensing regime based on capital conditions
Foreign ownership in domestic banks permitted up to 40%
Brazil
Foreign banks’ share of banking sector assets – 22%
‘Ear marked credit’ akin to priority sector towards agriculture,  
housing loans and microcredit  for domestic banks
Differential licensing regime based on ownership and activity
100%  foreign ownership permitted in domestic banks
Turkey
Foreign banks share of banking sector assets – 14%
Financial literacy and access  programmes mandated for 
domestic banks
100% ownership permitted in domestic banks
Differential licensing based on activity -  investment banking , 
deposit banking,  Islamic banking
“In July 2012 Bank Indonesia (BI) reduced the stake 
that any single foreign shareholder can acquire in a 
local bank from 99% to 40%, while dropping the cap 
for domestic bank ownership to 30% and 20% for 
local individuals” – Asia Money, 25 Sep 2013South Africa
Foreign banks’ share of banking sector assets – 22%
Differential licensing regime based on activity
100% foreign ownership  permitted in domestic banks
Inclusive banking requirements are made of domestic banks, 
and foreign banks are largely confined to corporate and 
wholesale lending
“Foreign banks—including HSBC Holdings PLC, 
Citigroup Inc., Standard Chartered PLC, and the Australia 
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.— have flocked to 
China to set up rural operations, aiming to capitalize on 
Beijing’s drive to boost incomes in the countryside” – 
Wall Street Journal, 8 Mar 2012China
Foreign banks share of banking sector assets – 2%
Reciprocal arrangements for foreign banks to develop 
regional banks and participate in the equity of development 
banks
Foreign ownership allowed up to 20% in domestic banks, 
without control
“ ..yet more evidence of how hot (Turkey’s) banking assets 
have become. Deals have multiplied over the past year.. 
the country is one of the few in Europe that is growing. 
Istanbul, Turkey’s commercial centre, is making a bid to 
become a financial hub, with its own version of Canary 
Wharf being built on the Asian side of the Bosphorus.” – 
The Economist, 18 May 2013A brief look at foreign bank participation across select emerging markets
16 PwCReferences
A hundred small steps – report of the committee on financial sector reforms, 2008, Planning Commission, Government of India
Annual Policy Statement for the Year 2009-10, RBI
Are Competitive Banking Systems More Stable?, Klaus Schaeck, Martin Cihak and Simon Wolfe, 2009, Journal of Money, Credit 
and Banking
Asia and Pacific region economic outlook update, 2013, IMF
Aspects of Banking Sector Reforms in India, Prabir C. Bhattacharya and M. N. Sivasubramanian, 2001, Economic and Political 
Weekly
Bank regulation and supervision survey, 2012, World Bank
Discussion Paper- Presence of foreign banks in India, 2011, RBI
Evolution of Banking in India, Report on Currency and Finance, 2008, RBI 
Foreign Banks in Historical Perspective, A. Karunagaran, 2006, Economic and Political Weekly
Foreign Banks in India – Establishment, Operations and Challenges: as Reflected from the Records of the Reserve Bank of India, 
Ashok Kapoor, RBI Archives
Global Financial Stability Report, 2013, IMF
Is It Time to Open up to Foreign Banks?, T. T. Ram Mohan, 2008, Economic and Political Weekly
Project Blue: Making sense of an uncertain future, 2012, PwC
Report of the Nair Committee on Priority Sector Lending, 2012, RBI
Review of a pamphlet entitled "Reasons for the establishment of a new bank in India", 1836, India merchant, Hume Tracts
The New Digital Tipping Point 2011, PwC
The rise, progress, and present condition of banking in India, 1863,  Cooke, Charles Northcote 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949
Banking Structure in India - The Way Forward, 2013, RBI
Deployment of White Label ATMs (WLAs), 2012, RBI
Financial Regulation of Systemically Important NBFCs and Banks’ Relationship with them, 2006, RBI
Foreign bank branches in India as of September 30, 2013, RBI
Master Circular on Branch Authorisation, 2013, RBI
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934
Roadmap for presence of Foreign Banks in India and Ownership and Governance in Private Sector banks, 2005, RBI
Scheme for Setting up of Wholly Owned Subsidiaries (WOS) by foreign banks in India, 2013, RBI
The Banking Laws (Amendment) Act 2012, Gazette of India
 “ABN Amro Bank takes over BankAm's retail business for $200 mn”, 1999, Indian Express 
“Barclays eyes India for its back-office jobs”, 2013, BPM Watch
“Deutsche Bank kicks off BPO operations”, 2003, Rediff Money
“HSBC Sells Stakes in Two Indian Banks”, 2012, Wall Street Journal
“HSBC sells UTI Bank's 7.19% stake for Rs 638 cr”, 2006, Business Standard
“Nations Bank Drives $62 Billion Merger : A New BankAmerica:Biggest of U.S. Banks”, 1998, New York Times
“Rabobank Sells Stake in Yes Bank”, 2012, Wall Street Journal
“Standard Chartered Bank: Right on the money”, 2013, Business Today
“Vikram Pandit is Citigroup CEO”, 2007, Rediff Money
RBS deal to help Ratnakar Bank expand, improve brand visibility, 2013, Business Standard
Royal Bank of Scotland wins biggest Financial Takeover, 2008, ABC News
Rupee fall gives BPOs some relief from Philippines, 2013, Times of India
Wall Street crisis: Investment banks succumb to collapse in confidence, 2008, The Guardian
White label ATMs take banking to masses, 2013, Indian Express
Citibank (http://www.online.citibank.co.in/press-room/citi-in-india.htm)
Deutsche Bank (https://www.deutsche-bank.de/ir/en/content/ir_releases_2011_3624.htm)
HDFC Bank (http://www.hdfcbank.com/aboutus/general/timesbank_amalgamation.htm)
HSBC (http://www.hsbc.com/about-hsbc/history), 
JP Morgan (https://www.jpmorgan.com/pages/jpmorgan/ap/in/home)  
Standard Chartered Bank (http://www.standardchartered.com/en/resources/global-en/history-timeline/index.html)
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     17
How banks responded to  
our survey  
Methodology
We interacted with and interviewed 32 foreign banks using a 
comprehensive questionnaire. Thirty-three questions were divided 
in the following five broad groups:
• Market environment
• Strategy and growth 
• Technology
• Risk, regulation and taxes 
• Human capital 
We received relevant responses from most of the banks that we 
interviewed. However, at times, banks chose not to respond to some 
questions or were unable to provide accurate data. This has been 
noted where applicable. 
Results have been compiled and analysed by PwC using the 
weighted average method where applicable.   
The survey results have been appropriately complemented with 
views and insights shared by banks during our conversations. 
Recent developments and our point of view on themes have also 
been included under each section.  Chapter 2
18 PwC
Exhibit 9: Factors impacting the Indian banking industry
Exhibit 10: Relative attractiveness of economies Section I: Market environment 
Financial service institutions are 
struggling to sustain their profitability and 
build a viable business model in today’s 
complex business environment. Banks in 
particular are rethinking their strategies 
and treading the path of innovation in 
order to gain a competitive edge in an 
industry marked by changing consumer 
behaviour and increasing ‘activism’ by 
regulatory and tax authorities. 
Which are the major factors that will 
have an impact on the Indian banking 
industry and on the foreign banks? 
It is no surprise that the survey results 
indicate regulatory challenge as the 
foremost concern for foreign banks 
today, given the plethora of regulatory 
changes in home and host countries. 
This is followed closely by political and 
social stability. There is a high level of 
concern on increasing social inequality 
and unrest, but the greater concern 
comes from the apprehension of political 
instability. Uncertainty resulting from a 
potential lack of clear majority of any one 
political party in the upcoming elections 
underpins apprehension regarding the 
direction of policies and governance in 
the nation. Several respondents also 
ranked competition among their top 
three concerns impacting the banking 
landscape. This assumes significance in 
the backdrop of new bank licences to be 
given to NBFCs and industrial houses 
under the licensing policy announced in 
early 2013.
Has the perception of India as a growth 
story changed over the last few years? 
Most of the respondents ranked China 
as the emerging investment destination, 
followed by South East Asia, Middle East 
and India. 
Interestingly, as per ‘ Choosing China: 
Improving the investment environment for 
multinationals’,  a survey by PwC and the 
China Development Research Foundation, 
launched in Beijing, more than half (56%) 
the CEOs surveyed chose China above 
other major and emerging economies 
including Brazil, Russia, India and the US. 
Most respondents, while acknowledging 
the importance of China also shared 
apprehensions about the sustainability 
of the China story and confidence in the 
India story in the long term. However, due 
to lack of short-term growth opportunity 
in India, the results were weighted in 
favour of other, faster growing economies.Source: PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis41%  of respondents rated regulatory change as
the topmost concern for their bank.  
33%  said that political stability was their prime  
concern.
88% of respondents ranked China as the most 
preferred investment destination. 
12%  of respondents ranking south-east Asia and 
the Middle East as the most attractive. None of the 
respondents felt that India was the most attractive 
investment destination.    Demographic 
change
Increasing 
globalisation
Political and 
social stability
Regulatory 
changes
Information and 
technologyCompetitionSocial and 
behavioural 
change
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     19
What does your bank find the most 
difficult aspects of the Indian banking 
industry?
The sensitivity to the regulatory 
environment and inability to differentiate 
are related to each other, with high-
ranking political uncertainty arising 
from short-term worries related to the 
forthcoming election and the uncertainty 
of policy direction. As competition 
intensifies, it becomes imperative for 
financial services providers to differentiate 
their offerings and garner a sticky client 
base. Banks are caught in a pincer 
situation here, on the one hand, the 
number of corporates with internationally 
accepted credit and governance standards 
has not grown and on the other hand, 
regulatory expectations of retail banking, 
liability side restrictions and financial 
inclusion has led to commoditisation of 
offerings. 
The above parameter evolved out of our 
early conversations with banks. Some 
banks strongly felt that the culture of 
‘free service’ and the inability to price 
was a constraint to growing retail 
banking. Given the limitations on branch 
expansion, some of the respondents felt 
that innovation with different distribution 
models using technology could be a 
differentiator for foreign banks. Some 
banks also felt that differential licensing, 
when it happens, can help create the 
differentiator. It was interesting to note 
that building a loyal customer base ranked 
low on the challenge barometer, which 
indicates that in all likelihood, foreign 
banks are confident of sustaining their 
share of customers.  
48% of respondents ranked 
regulatory environment as 
the most difficult aspect of the 
banking industry.  
19% said political 
uncertainty was a key 
challenge.In conversation 
• Although it is true that India is a large growth 
market, the macroeconomic,  regulatory and 
policy environment make it difficult to harness 
the potential of this market. 
•  BRICs are slowly and steadily losing their 
attractiveness, with new economies such as 
Indonesia, Mexico, Turkey, Cambodia and 
Vietnam becoming attractive. Foreign investors’ 
faith in the certainty of political environment has 
reduced.  
• China appears to be the preferred destination at 
this point of time.
• India is an important market in the region that 
cannot be ignored.Exhibit 11: Factors impacting the Indian banking industry
Source: PwC analysis
Regulatory 
environment
Political 
uncertainity
Risk 
management
Building a loyal 
customer base
Taxation and 
accounting 
frameworkCulture of 
free serviceCompetition 
from foreign and 
domestic banks
Organisation and 
the inability to 
differentiate
20 PwCSection II: Strategy and growth 
Some of the key factors that business 
leaders need to keep in mind while 
formulating their business strategies are 
social and demographic trends, changes 
in customer behaviour and preferences, 
emerging technologies and their use, 
changes on the regulatory front, etc. 
Business models are undergoing a 
continual revamp to accommodate 
changes in the fast-paced environment 
and business expansion plans are being 
tailored to match the market scenario. 
In the context of new domestic banks 
on the horizon, it was not surprising 
that 37% of the respondents expected 
status quo and another 37% expected 
decrease in market share. It is interesting 
that most respondents brought up the 
issue of realignment of the India strategy 
to do more offshore funding in view 
of the liberalised ECB norms and the 
ease of operation in dealing with Indian 
corporates from offshore. Respondents 
who were positive about market share 
increasing were a mere 26%. 
Subsequent to our data analysis, the RBI 
released the framework for setting up 
wholly owned subsidiaries (WOS) by 
foreign banks in India. However, while 
the goalpost seems clear, the details still 
need to be evaluated in order to assess the 
impact these guidelines will have in the 
short-term. 
The recently released WOS 
guidelines provide foreign 
banks with the option to open 
new branches, thus increasing 
the depth of their business in 
India, list on Indian exchanges 
and enter into M&A with 
private sector banks, subject 
to the overall investment limit 
of 74%. Although the banking industry is expected 
to go through a phase of consolidation, 
most respondents said that they would 
strengthen their presence in the country 
by way of organic growth focussing 
on their topline growth and improve 
profitability. Some respondents felt that it 
was not an easy task to grow organically 
in markets such as India and inorganic 
strategy would be preferred. However, 
there can be no compromise on control 
in case of inorganic growth. Given 
the current voting rights cap of 10%, 
immediate interest in inorganic growth 
was not as high as expected. Some of the 
foreign bank participants were open to 
both strategies-to grow organically as well 
as through acquisitions.
As per the new guidelines, 
foreign banks that choose to 
adopt the WOS model will 
be permitted to enter into 
mergers and acquisitions with 
Indian banks, which may 
present wider prospects for 
inorganic growth. However, 
this will be subject not only 
to regulatory approval for 
the transaction, but also to 
an assessment of the overall 
foreign bank participation 
and its success in Indian 
banking sector.Respondents strongly felt that there is 
an absence of a level playing field for 
foreign banks in India. While they showed 
an understanding of the facilitative 
environment in terms of access to 
products or clients, the perception of non 
level playing field was largely driven by 
constraints on branch growth. Many of 
the foreign banks that have entered the 
country post-2009 feel that they can never 
match up to the distribution strength of 
Indian banks or for that matter foreign 
banks that have grown over the years in 
different regulatory regimes. 
While the final guidelines on the 
operations of foreign banks in India are 
expected to bring them more or less on the 
same footing as domestic banks, providing 
them with near national treatment; 
foreign banks may have other issues 
relating to priority sector lending and 
inclusion as detailed in Chapter I. 
The WOS guidelines released 
recently have come a step 
closer to providing foreign 
banks with a level playing 
field to be at par with 
domestic banks in terms of 
branch network and access 
to local markets. However, 
the same comes with greater 
commitment to financial 
inclusion. Exhibit 12: Will the aggregate market 
share of foreign banks in India (vs. local 
banks) continue to increase, stay the 
same or decrease? Exhibit 13: Given the opportunity, what 
would be your bank’s primary method of 
expansion in India?Exhibit 14: Do you think foreign banks in 
India operate on a level playing field?
No change
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     21
Exhibit 15: Perception of India strategy
Exhibit 16: Major revenue growth areasHow does your head office perceive the 
India strategy? 
India emerged as a major destination for 
the outsourcing of banking activities, 
starting with the ubiquitous call centres 
of the 1990s. It capitalised on its inherent 
advantages of a large English-speaking 
population, cost competitiveness vis-
a-vis the West and its reputation as the 
emerging technology giant. Over time, the 
cost competitiveness has reduced due to 
increasing power costs, escalating wages 
and competition from other geographies 
such as Philippines and China.  
With better recognition of the quality 
of talent available in India and the 
emergence of new technologies such 
as social, mobile, analytics and cloud 
(SMAC), the outsourced activities moved 
up the value chain. Doing proprietary 
work in these areas rather than utilising 
the third-party channel has proved to be 
more effective and profitable for banks. 
Also, over time, the business model of 
banks has evolved from a service-delivery 
model to undertaking core operations, 
and routine and standardised work being 
outsourced to IT firms, which also reflects 
in the changing profile of captives.
Although the captive strategy is an 
important part of the India strategy for 
most foreign banks, a strong vote towards 
India being an important market for 
their products and services also reflects 
the recognition of the potential of this 
economy to the long-term strategies of 
banks.
What were your major revenue growth 
areas in the past 12 months? 
The results were not surprising. The most 
profitable areas of growth for foreign 
banks in India have been earnings from 
foreign exchange and corporate lending. 
While deposits and investment products 
were found to be an area of growth, 
private banking emerged as the least area 
of focus, reflecting the plain vanilla nature 
of the wealth management market and 
the AML and financial fraud challenges. 
As expected, generating foreign currency 
deposits from remittance corridors is an 
important part of the deposit strategy.Source: PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysisAround 70% of respondents perceived India to be 
a huge market for their bank’s products and services. 
Interestingly, perception of India as a low-cost tech -
nology support for global operations ranked very low 
for most respondents.  
70% respondents agreed that foreign exchange and 
corporate lending were major areas contributing to 
growth of the foreign banks.  Contrary to the trend of shutting down captive centres 
back in 2008 and 2009, most of the foreign banks are 
now focussing on scaling up their operations by ex -
panding their captive bases here in India. The captives 
are slowly and steadily gaining critical importance in 
doing quality work and proprietary assignments on 
investment banking, consumer banking, risk manage -
ment, anti money laundering, transaction services, etc. 
Private bankingCash managementFixed income
22 PwC
Exhibit 17: Products gaining importance
Exhibit 18: Products in the retail banking industrySource: PwC analysis
Source: PwC analysis82% of respondents foresee that products such as 
trade finance and ECB will strengthen in the market -
place, followed by development in the debt capital 
markets.  
Foreign banks operating in India are perceived to 
create synergies between wealth management and 
investment banking. What wholesale products do you see 
becoming increasingly important in the 
Indian banking industry in the next 
three years?
Most respondents felt that trade finance 
and ECB were going to be important over 
the coming years, followed by debt capital 
markets. The offshore book comprising 
trade finance and ECB is in many ways 
the most distinctive feature for foreign 
banks and one that sets them apart from 
domestic banks. For many small foreign 
banks, the expansion of onshore business 
is dependent on the quality and quantity 
of leverage that the onshore branch 
provides for this core client group. With 
more globalisation and higher trade, this 
is likely to continue. This expansion will 
continue to help foreign banks in another 
area of traditional strength, i.e. treasury 
products.
Almost all respondents felt that India’s 
need for massive infrastructure and 
the policy initiatives around creating 
conducive financing products will lead 
to the development of debt markets and 
segments of banking such as structured 
finance and project finance will grow 
for banks in India. Urbanisation, greater 
inclusion of non-urban centres in the 
mainstream economy and a move towards 
a ‘less-cash’ economy will all provide 
a high degree of opportunities in cash 
management, another area of strength for 
many foreign banks.
Which product areas do you see 
becoming increasingly important in the 
Indian retail banking industry in the 
next three years?
Changing societal norms, including 
a move towards nuclear families and 
the trend to buy homes on long tenure 
mortgages, coupled with a young 
population will make the home loan 
market a consistent growth area for a 
generation of bankers in India. More 
young entrepreneurs and second- and 
third-generation wealthy clients will 
mean better opportunities for banks 
targeting high-net-worth individuals 
through innovative products such as art 
that diversify their portfolio. Surprisingly, 
most respondents felt that credit cards 
were not a growth product, based on past 
experience and the hugely ‘cash based’ 
nature of the economy.
In your pursuit of growth, which 
customer segments will you expand over 
the next three years?
The client base of most foreign banks 
is concentrated around leading 
multinational corporations, large financial Exhibit 19: Expansion of customer segments
Source: PwC analysisDebt capital marketsNPA and performing loan tradingTrade finance / ECBHNWI and 
private banking
Medium enterprises
Local corporations
Self employed professionals
Salaried employees
Ultra high networth individual
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     23institutions and ultra high-net-worth 
individuals. Therefore, it was hardly 
surprising to find them voted as future 
growth segments. It was reassuring to see 
that local corporates came a close second 
not only as an indicator of the clout of 
local corporations, but also of a clear shift 
in strategic thinking on behalf of foreign 
banks operating in the country. 
Few respondents felt that their banks 
would continue to primarily target 
customers from their home countries and 
their constituents. Most revealed an open 
mind to dealing with local corporations 
and SMEs. However, most also expressed 
concerns of credit risk while dealing with 
micro and small enterprises, which is a 
part of the future growth strategy under 
priority sector norms.  
Section III: Technology 
In the initial phase of their growth, 
foreign banks differentiated themselves 
in the emerging markets on the basis of 
better technology and processes, leading 
to higher efficiency and the ability to 
generate improved profitability. New 
private sector banks have been quick to 
catch up and often had the advantage 
of leapfrogging with new, integrated 
technology platforms. What made it 
worse for many foreign banks was that 
they were essentially set up as branches of 
different verticals operating within their 
global banks, with different technology 
platforms with many manual workarounds 
to generate local reporting and customer 
data. The Automated Dataflow projects 
being undertaken by banks as a result of 
regulatory guidelines of 2011-12 and a 
trend among recent entrants to set up local 
platforms may change the way foreign 
banks use technology once again.
There is little doubt that technology 
is going to be the gamechanger for 
businesses today, more so for financial 
institutions dealing with challenges 
of enhanced regulatory reporting and 
distribution and service to demanding 
customers. The world has gone digital, 
with the internet, mobile, social media, 
analytics and cloud making their presence 
felt in every aspect of business. As 
technological development gains speed 
and clout, the threat to organisations While global corporations will continue to be the 
main customer segment, local corporations and local 
SMEs are very much on the agenda for foreign banks 
operating in India
unwilling to embrace it becomes acute. 
Going digital implies that financial 
institutions can engage more closely with 
the younger generation who are tech-
savvy and look to the online channel for 
resolving most of their queries. The online 
channel also showcases customer or user 
preferences which can be used by financial 
institutions for business intelligence. The 
rapid growth of mobiles, smartphones and 
tablets offers an opportunity to empower 
sales channels to reach markets with less 
penetration. 
Technology in India has been responsible 
for overcoming physical and geographical 
barriers, by automating processes, 
enabling branchless banking and 
facilitating real-time service delivery 
across the financial services sector. The 
boom in mobile technology is expected to 
play an important role in taking banking to India’s un-banked population. Being 
low cost and affordable, it continues to be 
one of the critical pillars supporting the 
overall structure of the financial services 
sector. 
Which of the following do you think will 
lead to innovation in banking?
Disruptive technologies in today’s times 
have a huge role to play in accelerating the 
growth of the banking sector.  
The boom in social networking can be 
leveraged to a great extent by banks to 
increase their customer base and customer 
engagement. Social collaboration 
networks when used internally can 
help build a dynamic and creative 
work environment. They can enable 
organisations to instantly perceive the 
pulse on critical organisational issues and 
enable virtual workplace solutions.
Exhibit 20: Factors leading to innovative banking 
Source: PwC analysis
77% of respondents agreed that disruptive 
technologies will be critical to drive innovation in the 
banking domain.  
63%  respondents felt that risk and regulatory 
requirements will drive innovation in the industry.  
Social, mobile, analytics and cloud (SMAC) is the new 
buzzword across the banking landscape, professed to 
be a huge catalyst for growth of the banking sector as 
a whole.  

24 PwC
Which of the following areas is the most 
critical for you, requiring technology 
investment on a priority basis?
Not surprisingly, a large majority (85%) 
felt that risk and regulatory was one 
area where they needed technology 
investments on a priority basis. Such 
investment is already happening in 
response to the Automated Dataflow 
requirements and is expected to lead to 
consistency in regulatory reporting.
Product innovation and enhancing 
customer experience also featured high 
on the technology agenda of banks. 
This is hardly surprising as technology 
has the capacity to deliver an enhanced 
user experience, reducing the time for 
service delivery, bringing in efficiency 
in processes, and overall, providing 
personalised attention to customers. 
Customer relationship management 
(CRM) helps draw increased revenues 
from customers as it allows for the 
utilisation of available customer 
information to sell product suites across 
segments. CRM applications also give 
room to customer feedback which can 
help in customer retention in the face of 
increased competition. 
Surprisingly, only 26% of the respondents 
felt that technology can be a driver to 
expand and increase reach. This could be a 
reflection of the rigidities in the regulatory 
architecture around digital growth 
of banks in the absence of brick-and-
mortar branches (limitation on business 
correspondents geographical location, 
etc.) Exhibit 21: Areas of investment in technology
Exhibit 22: Do you have a digital strategy in place?Source: PwC analysis
Subsequent to investing in risk and regulatory 
requirements, 44% of respondents felt that 
customer experience, service delivery and product 
innovation were areas that investment should be 
focussed on. 
Around 58% of 
respondents confirmed 
that a digital strategy 
had been put in place to 
tackle the challenges of 
the business environment, 
while quite a large number, 
around 42%, also said that 
they had not thought about 
a strategy as yet. This could 
be a reflection of the fact 
that most foreign banks 
are not really present in the 
retail segment and do not 
have immediate plans to 
enter it.Risk and regulatory
Data governance
Expansion and reach
Product innovation
Financial reportingCustomer experience 
and service delivery
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     25Exhibit 23: Does the implementation 
of Basel III in India impact your bank’s 
capital?Section IV: Risk, regulation and 
taxes
It has become vital for financial institutions 
to look beyond pure compliance 
concerns and understand how regulatory 
developments will impact product 
and business portfolios, how they will 
determine the allowable cost structure and 
ultimately the strategy of the organisation. 
A strong regulatory framework involving 
effective liquidity management, enhanced 
risk coverage reducing leverage and the 
ability to identify systemic risk has become 
a necessary pillar of strategy for banks. 
In India, regulatory focus has been 
twofold, reducing systemic risk by aligning 
regulatory agenda with the global reform 
agenda and ensuring spread of banking in 
this highly underpenetrated market. While 
the global reform agenda converges with 
most of the home countries’ requirements, 
there are local variations to be factored 
in. Also, non-convertibility of the rupee 
and attendant requirement for banks to 
invest in compliance infrastructure for 
crossborder transactions add to costs. 
As banks deal with the implications of 
subsidiarisation guidelines, the need 
to comprehend impact on intra-group 
transactions, tax and transfer pricing 
implications and local ownership of 
decision-making and risk will place further 
stress on the senior management of foreign 
banks in India as well as in the head offices.Basel III guidelines are being adopted 
by Indian banks in a phased manner, 
ensuring that banks will be adequately 
capitalised to manage all risks. These 
guidelines seek to enhance the quality 
of capital by increasing the requirement 
for equity capital, ensuring that banks 
are better equipped to deal with financial 
downturns, should they arise. Foreign 
banks typically operate at high levels 
of capital adequacy and that should be 
expected to limit the impact of Basel III 
in India. However, the vote may reflect 
anxiety on account of a lack of clarity on 
some implementation aspects of NSFR 
and LCR and the fact that many foreign 
banks have high ratio of off-balance sheet 
business.
Please rank the following factors 
according to the impact you think 
they’ll have on the Indian banking 
industry and on the foreign banks. 
We asked respondents to categorise the 
various types of risks into high, medium 
or low.  Macro-economic risk and risk 
arising out of changing policies was 
ranked very high followed by regulatory 
risk. The profitability factor came out 
to be the next concern, which indicates 
that foreign banks in India are concerned 
about the sustainability of their business 
model in the long run. The quality of risk 
management and corporate governance 
in the industry (largely at the client end) 
appeared to be serious concerns as well.
Exhibit 24: Ranking of risks in IndiaIn the absence of complete 
convergence between global 
and local requirements and 
different standards for the 
recognition of instruments 
and counterparties, foreign 
banks may face added 
complexity on compliance 
with capital requirements.
26 PwCWhich regulatory requirements pose 
difficulty or complexity in conducting 
your business? 
For most of the foreign banks, the new 
mandate on priority sector lending and 
financial inclusion guidelines seem to be 
posing a challenge. Followed by this were 
other concerns such as KYC, AML norms, 
cross-border dealings, single or group 
borrower limits, etc. 
The RBI has recently revised the guidelines 
with reference to priority sector lending 
for foreign banks, bringing the mandate 
to 40% for banks with more than 20 
branches from an erstwhile 32%. This 
needs to be executed over a period of 
five years. The portfolio of priority sector 
lending comprises agriculture, MSMEs, 
education, housing, export credit and 
others that require a different business and 
distribution model. Almost all participants 
felt the need to continue with export 
finance as a priority sector. Many felt that 
infrastructure development should be 
given the same status. The Indian market witnessed the first 
rupee denominated credit default swap 
trade in December 2011. The initiation 
of credit derivative represents a form of 
market completion. By creating an off-
balance sheet, forward and contingent 
markets for credit risk, credit derivatives 
perform a classic market completion 
role. In essence, this means they make 
provisions to achieve efficiency gains.
Credit default swaps can be actively used 
in the global market for better product 
structuring, hedging trading instruments, 
better asset management and the 
management of regulatory and economic 
capital. 
Although 56% of the foreign banks we 
spoke to seemed to believe that lack of 
credit default swaps was not a handicap 
to their business, they  also highlighted 
challenges such as lack of knowledge 
about the product, lack of pricing data, a 
shallow corporate bond market, regulatory 
constraints and lack of adequate systems 
and infrastructure to facilitate trading. 
Exhibit 27: In your opinion, will the proposed 
guideline on subsidiarisation of foreign 
banks provide a more level playing field? For foreign banks, most Indian clients 
are rated as BB- or worse, in contrast to 
which most Indian banks view the local 
corporate entities as AAA+ rated entities. 
The global risk treatment of Indian 
entities inhibits the capital available to 
fund lending activities in the country. 
For most banks, initiating rural credit in 
India is likely to be an unacceptable idea 
to their credit managers at home since 
this does not form part of their organic 
international banking strategies.
Most respondents think that the new 
guidelines on the subsidiarisation of 
foreign banks will lead to providing a 
level playing field for banks, although 
44% of respondents said that this kind 
of ‘near national treatment’ of foreign 
banks may not provide them with 
opportunities similar to domestic banks. 
Many respondents believed that while 
they had a limited strategy at present, 
their head offices would be willing to 
look at an expansion plan in the future, 
depending upon macroeconomic and 
policy conditions.   
Exhibit 25: Do you consider the lack of 
credit default swaps to be a handicap? Exhibit 26: Is the Indian market ready to roll 
out more sophisticated financial products?Respondents seem to be positive on the 
outlook of the Indian market, with 57% 
saying that the Indian market is ready for 
more complex products. This could be 
a function of the fact that foreign banks 
largely deal with the top hundred Indian 
corporates and multinational clients, 
where the understanding of sophisticated 
products may be high. A strong 43% 
feel that India is still not ready to grasp 
complex financial products, primarily 
because of the low levels of financial 
literacy and lack of training of distributors 
of financial products giving rise to fears of 
mis-selling, lack of training of distributors 
of financial products, etc. 
While the clientele of foreign 
banks may have achieved 
greater sophistication, the 
Indian market is not perceived 
to be ready for sophisticated 
financial products.   
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     27
Exhibit 28: Most challenging regulatory requirements
Exhibit 29: Please rank the following 
based on their relevance to your decision 
to incorporate locally, with one having the 
most relevance to four having the leastThe main objective of the RBI in issuing 
guidelines on the subsidiarisation of 
foreign banks is to ring fence foreign 
banks’ operations in India from any 
adverse shocks at home. In the bargain, it 
does somewhat level the playing field for 
foreign banks and render near national 
treatment to them. 
Many of the foreign banks remain unclear 
about how WOS is going to play out 
for them, with priority sector lending 
and rural braches posing a challenge. 
Acquisition targets in India that are 
primarily promoter driven and command 
high valuation may also pose a challenge 
for foreign banks aspiring to use this 
opportunity. Lack of alignment of voting 
rights with shareholding was a concern 
expressed by many participants.        79%  of the respondents 
said that the decision to 
incorporate locally would be 
primarily so that they can get 
near national treatment at 
par with local banks. 
39%  said that this would 
give them an opportunity to 
participate in increased M&A 
activities. Single/group borrower limits
Income recognition, asset 
classification and provisioning
In the event of local subsidiarisation, 
what would be the major challenges for 
your bank? 
Clearly, the inclusion code is yet to be 
cracked by foreign banks. While the 
largest of them have submitted plans to 
the RBI for a five-year transition, market 
conditions and lack of opportunities 
to participate through partnerships 
or other instruments are significant 
handicaps. Rural branches, for many 
banks are unacceptable cost centres as 
branches not only need to fulfil local 
regulatory requirements of connectivity 
and brick and mortar presence, but also 
home country branch specifications 
that are driven by global standards. Yet, 
many banks shared examples of their 
efforts to create outreach in difficult 
geographies in their home countries using 
technology and partnerships. However, 
most expressed concerns around human 
safety, finding the right talent and lack 
of power or connectivity; all increasing 
operational costs. For banks with a 
definite strategy to grow or banks with 
more than 20 branches, agricultural 
lending requirements make rural branches 
an integral part of the strategy, but there 
are no clear answers yet on how to best 
balance the risks and rewards on such a 
portfolio.Exhibit 30: Major challenge in the event of subsidiarisation
Exhibit 31: Challenges in terms of regulatory environment
Source: PwC analysis
69%  of respondents said that lack of branches was 
the topmost concern for them.
42% saying that policy push for retail and universal 
banking and legal recourse to recovery of debt posed 
challenges.What are the challenges faced by 
your bank in terms of the regulatory 
environment?
At present, foreign banks operate in India 
as branches of the parent bank. Currently, 
permission for opening of branches by 
foreign banks in India is guided by India’s 
commitment to the WTO to allow 12 new 
branches in a year. 
Foreign banks in India feel that the 
restrictive branch licensing policy has been a handicap in implementing business 
plans. The release of the scheme for 
conversion to wholly owned subsidiaries 
providing the route of WOS to banks 
looking for branch growth may not 
change this perception as most banks are 
not ambitious about growing large retail 
network for branches, but would like to 
grow their branch networks to service 
their niche client segment.
Perception of risk and 
regulation by foreign banks 
in India
• A differentiated licence regime 
will be optimal for foreign banks 
as many of them want to remain 
with their limited model and are 
not a source of risk as they have 
no presence or plans to grow in 
retail segment. 
• The twin goals of depositor 
protection and push towards 
retail banking seem to be in 
conflict as most niche banks 
would be reconciled to give up 
access to retail deposits if they 
could operate in a niche segment. 
• The recent risk based supervision 
approach has been welcomed by 
the industry, as it may imply the 
end of annual on-site inspections 
which are demanding and often 
not commensurate with the 
limited business model. 
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     29Tax perspectives 
A large number of respondents, roughly 
48% find the tax environment to be 
challenging as compared to other 
economies, while 33% said that it was 
extremely challenging to deal with 
tax laws in India. Around 77% of the 
respondents also felt that transfer pricing 
authorities were very aggressive in their 
approach. Exhibit 32: Compared to the other 
emerging economies, tax environment in 
India
Exhibit 34: Are the assessments done 
by transfer pricing authorities too 
aggressive?Exhibit 35: Which of the following pose a 
challenge to your bank?
Exhibit 33: Do you consider tax dispute 
resolution a mechanism to be efficient?The most challenging aspect from the tax 
perspective is to deal with the withholding 
tax on cross-border transactions and taxes 
on head office payments. Moreover, most 
foreign banks do not consider the tax 
dispute mechanism to be efficient.
Although the Reserve Bank of India issued 
a recent circular to clarify the stance of 
the government on tax treatment of local 
subsidiaries and conversion of branch into 
subsidiary, apprehension of future action 
have not been put to rest. This is consistent 
with the current situation where most 
banks have ongoing tax litigation going 
back to many years. 
Subsidiarisation and different rules in 
home and host countries also create 
challenges around transfer pricing. For 
example, the benefit that the WOS is likely 
to derive from the parental guarantee 
will need to be evaluated using transfer 
pricing principles to determine arms’ 
length charge for the guarantee. Other 
transactions between the WOS and its 
parent or affiliates will also need to satisfy 
Indian transfer pricing regulations.
Section V: Human capital 
Human capital is recognised to be the 
most important element in any service 
organisation. 
India is perceived to host a large talent 
pool that is young and well educated and 
compares favourably on cost parameters. 
However, the growth in the banking 
industry and the entry of new players has 
also led to what is perceived to be a war 
for talent. For many years, foreign banks 
operating in India were employers of 
choice for the elite and had first preference 
at the best educational institutions. 
However, gradually, with other sectors of 
the economy doing well, that is gradually 
changing. Many small foreign banks with 
low brand recognition compete in the 
same space as large global brands and 
extremely visible Indian brands and find 
it difficult to source quality talent at good 
prices.
30 PwCStarting on a positive note, most foreign 
banks revealed that the level of staff 
turnover in their banks was less than 10%. 
A minuscule 4% said that staff turnover 
exceeded 30%. Many foreign banks 
operating in India are confident that they 
will have the human capital to execute this 
strategy. 
Banks also have strong faith in the talent 
pool available in India, considering it at 
par with global standards. Most foreign 
banks consider the talent pool in India to 
be highly skilled and relatively cheaper 
than most other emerging economies. 
However, many banks also felt that there 
was increasing pressure to pay more 
for  quality of resources that was not 
necessarily the best. The other good thing 
Exhibit 41: Which staff functions have the highest hiring priority in 2013-14?Exhibit 38: Over the next three to five 
years, will you have the people to deliver 
your business strategy?Exhibit 40: In your opinion, is the quality of 
talent in India equivalent to that in the rest 
of the world?Exhibit 39: Would you say that talent 
in India is more expensive than similar 
emerging markets?
Exhibit 37: To what degree have you 
needed to adapt your home culture and 
processes to provide the flexibility of 
doing business in India?Exhibit 36: What was the level of staff 
turnover in your bank in 2012-13?
from the perspective of human capital is 
that these foreign banks have not had to 
make much of a change by way of culture, 
considering Indians to be flexible and 
adaptable. 
Lastly, 67% of the respondents agreed 
that most of the hiring would be in the 
area of relationship managers in the 
corporate domain. Risk management 
also came up as a key area of investment 
where specialised expertise is required by 
banks. This was interestingly in contrast 
with many other markets where hiring 
strategies at present are more focussed 
around compliance and AML functions. 
Most banks also feel that there is a need 
for succession planning and efficient 
talent management. 
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     31
Appendices
Survey respondents 
Thirty two* foreign banks participated in the survey: 
1. Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
2. Antwerp Diamond Bank N.V.
3. ANZ Bank Ltd 
4. Bank of America
5. Bank of Bahrain & Kuwait BSC
6. Bank of Ceylon
7. Bank of Nova Scotia
8. Bank of Tokyo Mistubishi UFJ
9. Barclays Bank Plc.
10. Bank Internasional Indonesia (Maybank)
11. BNP Paribas
12. Citibank N.A.
13. Commonwealth Bank of Australia
14. Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank15. Credit Suisse A.G
16. Development Bank of Singapore
17. FirstRand Bank Ltd
18. HSBC Ltd
19. J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
20. JSC VTB Bank
21. Mizuho Corporate Bank
22. National Australia Bank
23. Rabobank International
24. Royal bank of Scotland
25. Sberbank
26. Societe Generale
27. Standard Chartered Bank
28. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 
29. United Overseas Bank
30. Westpac Banking CorporationChapter 3
*Two banks that participated in the survey specifically requested that their names are not disclosed
32 PwCList of banks as on 31 March 2013 Branches Capital and reserves Deposits Advances
AB Bank Limited 1 751 1214 625
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Ltd 2 3274 7043 5198
American Express Banking Corp. 2 7604 6747 17103
Antwerp  Diamond Bank Nv 1 2302 795 7603
Australia And New Zealand Banking Group Limited 1 11324 25092 23767
Bank Internasional Indonesia 1 2138 0 0
Bank of America N.T. And S.A. 5 45160 73780 76230
Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait B.S.C. 2 2886 6958 6926
Bank of Ceylon 1 1757 1194 999
Bank of Nova Scotia 5 17850 60556 77661
Barclays Bank Plc 9 55410 50632 84723
BNP Paribas 9 22819 55797 77373
Chinatrust Commercial Bank 2 1603 1927 2765
Citibank N.A 43 173794 665594 520355
Commonwealth Bank Of Australia 1 1692 513 1652
Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank 5 17593 5963 24042
Credit Suisse Ag 1 13066 4187 4550
DBS Bank Ltd. 12 29303 154876 138581
Deutsche Bank Ag 17 78913 207943 223741
Firstrand Bank Ltd 1 3033 713 2594
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpn.Ltd. 50 151958 568660 357087
HSBC Bank  Oman  S.A.O.G. 2 2229 1488 51
Industrial And Commercial Bank of China 1 4818 1771 3372
JPMorgan Chase Bank National Association 1 57535 103687 53445
JSC VTB Bank 1 1114 99 885
Krung Thai Bank Public Company Limited 1 491 1835 160
Mashreq Bank Psc 1 1208 1194 547
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd 2 35877 17434 55188
National Australia Bank 1 1530 0 1636
Rabobank International 1 6139 834 5899
Sberbank 1 1443 47 370
Shinhan Bank 3 5725 14404 12061
Societe Generale 3 8571 13826 17569
Sonali Bank 2 98 398 184
Standard Chartered Bank 100 191531 620017 619543
State Bank of Mauritius Ltd 3 6062 6009 8150
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 1 10834 15 0
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd 4 34023 41464 68395
The Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. 31 28319 127494 125339
UBS Ag 1 20675 25575 9741
United Overseas Bank Ltd 1 1559 62 358
Westpac 1 8172 0 0
Woori Bank 1 1636 2158 329
Grand total 334 1073819 2879995 2636797
Figures in INR million
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     33Banks Background
Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited AB Bank Limited is a Bangladesh-based private sector bank, having its overseas office in Mumbai. 
Established on 31 December 1981 as the first private sector bank in Bangladesh, it started its operation 
from 12 April 1982. The Mumbai branch of the AB Bank Limited is the sole overseas branch in India.
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Ltd ADCB India began operations in 1980 with the objective of further developing Indo-UAE trade relations 
and catering to the remittance and savings needs of  non-resident Indians working in the UAE and 
other countries in the GCC region. ADCB has been in India serving these niche segments through two 
branches in Mumbai and Bengaluru.
American Express Banking Corp American Express Bank Ltd India operates as a subsidiary of American Express Bank Ltd which was 
founded in 1921. Its two centres in India are located at Gurgaon and New Delhi. The Indian operations 
of American Express revolve around the back office customer services operations, apart from the 
credit card business for the domestic market. The American Express campus in Gurgaon is the largest 
employee location by head count for the group and supports the business continuity objectives of the 
American Express group. 
Antwerp  Diamond Bank Nv ADB Mumbai is the maiden branch of Antwerp Diamond Bank NV in India, operating since June 2002, 
and currently located  at Opera House in Mumbai. It gives support to the Indian diamond trade and 
industry. It lends its banking services and grants commercial credits to diamond importers, wholesalers 
and exporters, diamond cutting and polishing factories, jewellery manufacturers and exporters, 
diamond and jewellery traders.
Australia And New Zealand Banking 
Group LimitedANZ commenced banking operations in India with the opening of its first branch in Mumbai in June 
2011 after receipt of the banking licence from the Reserve Bank of India in October 2010. ANZ’s 
operations in India are a part of ANZ’s global network, comprising of Australia and New Zealand 
Banking Group Limited (ANZ) in Mumbai and ANZ Operations and Technology and ANZ Support 
Services India  in Bangalore. The India branch supports corporate as well as  institutional clients in 
India and provides greater access to the Indian markets for global network customers.  
Bank Internasional Indonesia BII commenced operating its Mumbai branch in 2013. Headquartered in Indonesia, it is a subsidiary 
of the Maybank Group, one of the largest banks in ASEAN by total assets and market capitalisation. It 
provides trade, foreign exchange and related banking products and services to Indian companies with 
business interests in the ASEAN region and vice versa. It also caters to Maybank Group’s customers 
and their counterparties for their banking requirements in India.  
Bank of America N.T. And S.A. The Bank of America commenced operations in India through its Mumbai branch in 1964. The bank 
offers a range of financial products and solutions to Indian corporates, multinationals, multilateral 
agencies and foreign government entities and financial institutions. It is headquartered in Mumbai, with 
five branch offices across Mumbai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru. The global merger of 
Merrill Lynch with a subsidiary of the Bank of America Corporation added a product suite of services 
through DSP Merrill Lynch, an investment banking, securities and wealth management services’ firm.
Bank of Bahrain And Kuwait B.S.C. The Bank of Bahrain and Kuwait (BBK) was incorporated in Bahrain in March 1971. BBK opened 
branches in India in 1986 as a scheduled commercial bank. There are three branches in India, in 
Mumbai, Hyderabad and Aluva in Kerala.
Bank of Ceylon BOC  is owned by the government of Sri Lanka and has a network of 301 local and three overseas 
branches. The bank started operations in Chennai in 1995.
Bank of Nova Scotia Scotia Bank was established in Nova Scotia in 1832. Today, the bank and its affiliates offer a broad 
range of products and services, including personal, commercial, corporate as well as  investment 
banking services to 19 million customers across 55 countries. It has presence in India with branches in 
Mumbai, New Delhi, Coimbatore, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi is one of the five primary operating companies of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial 
Group (MUFG). MUFG’s services include commercial banking, trust banking, securities, credit cards, 
consumer finance, asset management, leasing and several other fields of financial services. BTMU 
began operations in Mumbai, the financial capital of India, in 1953 as a predecessor company to the 
Bank of Tokyo from an iconic building in Fort, the business district. The bank has four branches in 
India, at Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai and Neemrana in Rajasthan, and is the largest Japanese bank in 
India.
Barclays Bank Plc Barclays, a British multinational banking and financial services company headquartered in London, has 
had its presence in India for nearly three decades, with an investment banking division and personal 
and corporate banking services in Mumbai, Pune, New Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Globally, 
Barclays has operations in retail, wholesale and investment banking, as well as wealth management, 
mortgage lending and credit cards in over 50 countries and territories and has around 48 million 
customers. 
34 PwCBNP Paribas BNP Paribas set-up its operations in India 150 years ago in Kolkata. It was the first French bank and 
the second foreign bank to have a set-up in the country. The bank has branches in eight major cities 
of Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Pune. BNP Paribas India 
Solutions Private Limited is a subsidiary of BNP Paribas SA, set up in 2005 to provide IT and back-
office processing services, infocentre and data warehousing, with a major focus on capital markets 
information technologies, for the BNP Paribas group. 
Chinatrust Commercial Bank Established in 1996 in New Delhi, Chinatrust Commercial Bank (CTCB), a private sector bank of 
Taiwan, has its presence in India as a scheduled bank. The bank has completed more than 16 years 
of successful operations in India. Chinatrust established its first branch in New Delhi in April 1996 and 
opened its second branch in Sriperumbudur (Chennai) in June 2012.  
Citibank N.A Citibank began operations in India in 1902 in Kolkata. It offers consumers and institutions a broad 
range of financial products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and 
investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services and wealth management.
The bank operates 42 full-service branches in 30 cities across the country providing services to more 
than 40,000 small and mid-sized companies across India. 
Commonwealth Bank of Australia The CBA started its operations in India in 2004 with a representative office in Bengaluru, offering trade 
finance services to clients doing business with Australia. Subsequently, it launched its full-fledged 
operations at its  Mumbai branch in 2010. The Mumbai branch provides a range of savings accounts, 
loans, money transfers and international trade finance services for customers in India. It also offers a 
range of NRI products for Indians living in Australia.
Credit Agricole Corporate and 
Investment BankCrédit Agricole CIB, a leading retail banking group of France, has been in India since 1981, and is 
located in Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. From these five branches, it also deals with 
the large markets in Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Baroda. It offers a comprehensive range 
of products and services, tailored to the needs of Indian companies, multinational companies and 
financial institutions. It also offers  its customers a wide range of products as well as  services in terms 
of cash management and working capital facilities. 
Credit Suisse Ag Credit Suisse Group AG is a Switzerland-based multinational financial services holding company 
headquartered in Zurich. After entering India in 2009, Credit Suisse provides a wide array of investment 
banking as well as  securities services with offices in Mumbai and New Delhi. This includes a full range 
of equity underwriting and financial advisory solutions to Indian corporates as well as to multinational 
companies looking to build their presence in the Indian market.
DBS Bank Ltd DBS was established in 1968 as the Development Bank of Singapore. Headquartered and listed in 
Singapore, DBS has over four million customers, and also has a growing presence in the three key 
Asian axes of growth, Greater China, Southeast Asia and South Asia. The bank initially entered India as 
a representative office in 1994, and opened its maiden branch in 1995.
Deutsche Bank Ag Deutsche Bank is a German bank headquartered in Frankfurt. It has around 78,000 employees 
worldwide, across 70 countries. Deutsche Bank in India is a fully-integrated financial services provider 
to Indian corporate, institutional and individual clients.  Deutsche Bank has been in India since 1980 
and is one of the larger foreign banks present in the country.
Firstrand Bank Ltd FirstRand Bank India is a branch of FirstRand Banking Group South Africa. FirstRand Bank is the first 
bank from  Africa  to be granted a full-scale commercial banking licence in India. It  has commenced its 
banking operations in India since April 2009 and currently has one branch in Mumbai. 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corp LtdHSBC’s origins in India dates back to 1853, when the Mercantile Bank of India was established in 
Mumbai. The parent company, HSBC Holdings plc is a British multinational banking and financial 
services company headquartered in London. In India, it offers a comprehensive suite of world-class 
products and services to its corporate and commercial banking clients as also to a fast growing 
personal banking customer base.
The bank also has over 50,000 active commercial banking customers in India, including proprietors, 
partnerships, clubs and associations, incorporated businesses and publicly quoted companies.
HSBC Bank Oman S.A.O.G. HSBC Bank Oman S.A.O.G  was the first 100% Omani-owned commercial bank in the Sultanate of 
Oman and today it  has the largest network of branches in Oman, including 82 branches in the country 
and four  overseas branches in Mumbai and Cochin(India)and Karachi and Lahore (Pakistan). 
Industrial and Commercial Bank Of 
ChinaThe Industrial and Commercial Bank of China opened its first branch in India in Mumbai. It officially 
entered the Indian banking industry as the first representative of Chinese mainland banks and was 
granted the final licence by the RBI on 16 May 2011. The branch engages in comprehensive banking 
business, including corporate banking, retail banking, and investment banking.
JPMorgan Chase Bank National 
AssociationJPMorgan’s presence in India dates back to 1922. Mumbai is one of JPMorgan’s largest locations 
outside the US and serves as a regional hub. India is an important focus for JPMorgan’s expansion in 
the Asia-Pacific region. The lines of business include the investment bank, the global corporate bank, 
private equity, asset management and treasury and securities service. JPMorgan has a large global 
service centre in India that is rapidly expanding in scope and size.
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     35JSC VTB Bank JSC VTB Bank, located in New Delhi is a Russian-owned international bank  present across  13 
countries. It started its operations in India in the year 2008, with its maiden branch in New Delhi. 
Offering assistance in fund-based and non-fund based advances, which include term loans for creation 
of assets, export and import guarantee, documentary credits, packing credit, post-shipment loans, and 
other corporate banking services. 
Krung Thai Bank Public Company 
LimitedFounded in 1966, Krung Thai Bank operates 511 domestic and 12 foreign branches and representative 
offices worldwide in 2006. It’s largest shareholders are from the public sector with the Ministry of 
Finance holding 30.80 percent and the Financial Institutions Development Fund 29.97 percent.
Mashreq Bank Psc Mashreq Bank Psc provides banking and financial services in the UAE as well as  internationally. It is a 
relatively new entrant in the Indian banking industry. It has its head office in Mumbai. The bank offers 
fast and easy money transfers to India. 
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd MHCB is an important arm of the Mizuho Financial Group. It is considered to be the second largest 
financial services provider in Japan. MHCB is essentially a corporate and investment bank, formed 
by merging the corporate and investment banking divisions of Fuji Bank and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank 
with the Industrial Bank of Japan. Today, the capital strength of the Mizuho Corporate Bank stands at 
1,404,065 million JPY . In India, it has opened its branches in the cities of Mumbai and New Delhi, with 
the office in Mumbai being the head office. 
National Australia Bank NAB  has been present in Asia since the late 1960s, commencing operations with a representative 
office in Tokyo. Its Mumbai office was opened recently in 2012, to strengthen its business and 
customer base in Asia. NAB operates through 1,750 branches and service centres and employs over 
50,000 staff globally. Currently, NAB operates in India, Hong Kong, China, Singapore and Japan and 
Indonesia. 
Rabobank International Rabobank Group, a leading food and agribusiness bank, has been operating in India since 1998. 
Presently, it operates as Rabobank International, with its first branch and corporate headquarters 
located in Mumbai, Rabo India Finance, a non-banking finance company (NBFC) and Rabo India 
Securities, the investment banking arm of the group and provides specialised products and services. 
In addition, Rabobank is one of the sponsors of the India Agribusiness Fund, the 120 million USD food 
and agriculture sector private equity fund in India. The fund is sponsored  with a 25% share of the 
committed capital.
The Royal Bank Of Scotland N.V. The RBS Group is a large international banking and financial services company, headquartered 
in Edinburgh. RBS has been in India since 1921, bringing along with it  capabilities in debt capital 
markets, international transaction services, foreign exchange and rates, as well as providing balance 
sheet advisory and structuring. Currently, the retail and commercial banking operations in India is 
undergoing a consolidation. The bank will consolidate its presence into eight business hubs namely 
Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi-NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune, and Vadodara. It is expected that 
this process will be completed by the end of 2013. 
Sberbank Sberbank Rossii OAO is a Russia-based commercial bank. Sberbank started its India operations 
in 2010. It provides a range of corporate as well as  retail banking services, such as payments and 
transfers, currency exchange, credit cards, travel cheques, mutual funds, precious metal trading, 
deposits, brokerage services and many others. 
Shinhan Bank Shinhan Bank’s India operations were established in May, 1996 with the opening of its first branch 
in Mumbai. It now has branches in New Delhi and Vellore.  Since establishing the first branch in 
Mumbai, the bank has been posting profits in each year of its operations.  Apart from  traditional 
banking products,  the bank   also offers through its  branches in India products such as  trade credit 
arrangements, ECB arrangements, PCFC and export bill nego, no-frills account.
Societe Generale Societe Generale has been present in India since 1978 with the establishment of a representative office 
in Delhi.  In 1985, it opened its first full-fledged banking branch in Mumbai and a second branch in 
Delhi in 1993. Societe Generale provides a wide range of banking facilities and services from customer 
deposits and plain vanilla working capital loans, term loans; trade finance and corporate fx to more 
sophisticated investment banking products like structured finance, derivatives etc.
Sonali Bank Sonali Bank has opened two branches in India with a regional head office in Kolkata. It offers a wide 
range of services such as personal banking, corporate banking, Hajj savings, rural credit, micro credit, 
international banking, industrial financing, deposit and credit schemes, SME banking, project finance, 
trade finance, loan syndication, foreign exchange dealing, NGO-linkage loan, investment, government 
treasury function, money market operation, capital market operation and remittance.
Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank has been operating in India  since 1858. In India, the bank provides personal 
banking, priority banking, NRI banking, business banking.  The bank operates through a number of 
subsidiaries in India such as the  Standard Chartered Securities (India) Ltd, the vehicle for the equities 
business, Standard Chartered Private Equity Advisory (India) Private Limited, Standard Chartered 
Investments and Loans (India) Limited, Standard Chartered Finance limited and SCOPE International.
36 PwCState Bank of Mauritius Ltd The State Bank of Mauritius has been present in India since 1994, with its first branch in Mumbai. The 
bank also has branches in Chennai and Hyderabad. As a growing international bank in the wholesale 
banking domain in India, SBM provides a wide range of corporate and commercial banking services. 
These include corporate lending, treasury services, cash and trade transaction services to corporate, 
financial institutions and small and mid-tier clients across industries and segments.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation received its licence to operate in India in May 2012. It has 
significant exposure to India through foreign currency loan extended by it’s overseas offices and 
has advised several infrastructure projects. It is a partner with the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor 
Development Corporation for advising and bringing financing solutions to DMIC.
UBS Ag UBS AG is a Swiss global financial services company headquartered in Basel and Zurich in  
Switzerland.The bank’s Mumbai Branch offers its clients products across financial markets, institutional 
banking, corporate banking and individual banking. In 2013, the bank surrendered its banking license 
in India.
United Overseas Bank Ltd United Overseas Bank Limited, a major Asian bank headquartered in Singapore, established its maiden 
branch in India in Mumbai and commenced business on 29 December 2009. Founded in 1935, UOB 
provides a wide range of financial services, including  personal financial services, private banking, 
commercial and corporate banking, investment banking, corporate finance, capital market activities, 
treasury services, futures broking, asset management, venture capital management, insurance and 
stock broking services.
Westpac Westpac has been operating in India through its representative office since 2007 and was awarded a 
foreign banking licence by the RBI in April 2012. Westpac opened its first branch in India in November 
2012. The branch aims to support Australian customers and a growing number of Indian customers 
with trade and investment links to Australia. Westpac offers wholesale and retail banking services in 
India including trade finance, deposits, remittances, payments and receivables, savings and current 
account, foreign exchange and treasury services predominantly in Indian rupees.
Woori Bank The South Korea-based, Woori Bank, a part of the Woori Financial Group, launched its first branch 
in India, at Chennai, in 2012 to provide assistance to Korean companies in the country in corporate 
banking and to serve local clients. The Chennai branch is the head office of Woori Bank in India. 
Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection     37Notes
Acknowledgements
Rajul Jain
Senior Manager, Financial Services
Trisha Chatterji
Knowledge Manager, Financial Services
Vivek Pillai
Associate, Financial Services
Meena Aier
Senior Analyst, Financial Services 
Rashee Iyer
Senior Analyst, Financial Services
Abhishek Kakar
Brand and Communications

About PwC
For further assistance please contact
Manoj K Kashyap 
Leader, Financial Services 
Direct: +91 (022) 6669 1888 
Email: manoj.k.kashyap@in.pwc.com
Shinjini Kumar
Leader, Banking and capital markets 
Direct: +91 22 6689 1133 
Email: shinjini.kumar@in.pwc.comPwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re 
looking for. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more 
than 184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in 
Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Tell us what matters to you 
and find out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 
In India, PwC has offices in these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, 
Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For 
more information about PwC India’s service offerings, visit www.
pwc.com/in 
PwC refers to the PwC network and / or one or more of its 
member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see 
www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or 
estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents 
of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained 
within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited 
liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 121 - November 2013 Foreign Banks in India: At an inflection.indd
Designed by Brand and Communication, India
