Title: pwc_digital-iq
Date Published: 2013-07-12 16:04:05+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_digital-iq.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Cloud: The sky’s the limitDigital IQ - The India story snapshot
www.pwc.in
Volatile global economies and dismal domestic growth rate are forcing Indian 
organisations to take a ‘do more with less’ approach. Leading companies are starting 
to realise that cloud computing is far more than a better IT solution–it is in fact a 
better business solution. Cloud computing has the potential to accelerate business 
innovation and address the challenges facing today’s CIO. 
Business leaders are exploring new business models around cloud to increase 
productivity, create operational efficiencies, redefine ways of customer engagement 
and fuel innovation. Cloud has the potential to transform IT departments through 
infrastructure consolidation and optimisation, reduced costs and increased scalability. 
The business agility attributed by cloud computing is creating competitive advantage 
for companies in these unprecedented times of radical economic changes and market 
dynamics. No wonder cloud is fast moving from hype to reality.
However, along with the potential benefits, cloud computing also introduces new 
risks mainly with regard to data security and privacy challenges, compliance and tax 
implications. Hence, in order to reap the benefits of cloud investments, appropriate 
due diligence and a structured approach is required while adopting cloud services. In 
our experience, there is no one-size-fits-all solution anymore and in most cases, the 
best solution is a combination of alternatives. 
Cloud investments
The investment in cloud infrastructure and applications is on a rise. However, in order 
to reap significant business benefits, executives need to evaluate cloud through the 
lens of business value.
Following is a ground-up view from our recent 5th Annual Digital IQ – India report 
regarding where Indian companies stand with their present cloud investments.
Which of the technologies are you currently investing in?
Which of the following technologies are you currently investing in?
Public cloud applications Public cloud infrastructure Private cloud
73% 34% 59%  29%  64%  53%  
Strong  
relationshipsOther  
respondentsStrong  
relationshipsOther  
respondentsStrong  
relationshipsOther  
respondents
Above percentages reflect those respondents from India investing in cloud technologiesAbove percentages reflect those respondents from India investing in cloud technologies
This is a positive sign because a comprehensive cloud strategy cannot be developed in a silo. It is vital for the 
CIO to collaborate with the C-suite and other IT leaders in order to formulate a cloud strategy. An effective 
cloud adoption strategy needs to consider all aspects of cloud computing including business goals and drivers, 
challenges and solutions that the cloud can deliver to address them–related risks, potential benefits and the 
impact of each of the options.
Future investment trends
In comparison to the US, Indian respondents seem to favour private cloud over public cloud in terms of future 
investment. This is mainly because of the concerns of Indian organisations related to data security and privacy. 
Security lags technology adoption in the cloud environment–just 31% of Indian companies have a cloud 
security strategy1. Over 75% of the respondents in India expect to see an increase in security spending over the 
next 12 months compared to the global average of 45%.
What are your investment plans for each of these technologies in 2013?  
Response: Will invest more in 2013
42%  
Public cloud  
applications31%  
Public cloud 
infrastructure53%  
Public cloud
Benefits of cloud adoption
Private cloud is among the top technologies selected as most important to cost reduction, increasing 
innovation and productivity. This further re-emphasises the focus of Indian companies on private cloud.
What type of investments has enabled your organisation achieve the following:
1  The State of Information Security Survey India 2013, PwCHowever, when asked about the future workforce, majority of the respondents indicated that public cloud is the 
most important technology when it comes to maximising the productivity of today’s young adults. This is an 
interesting trend indicating that public cloud adoption may have an edge over private cloud in the years ahead.
In this Digital IQ snapshot, percentages in some cases are for directional purposes only as the number of respondents may be <30.
To have a deeper 
conversation about how 
this subject may affect your 
business, please contact:Arnab Basu
Executive Director  
Emerging Technologies
arnab.basu@in.pwc.com 
+91 33 2341 4290Rajesh Rajan 
Associate Director  
Emerging Technologies 
rajesh.rajan@in.pwc.com 
+91 80 4079 4003
Authors Ritesh Pal
ritesh.pal@in.pwc.com
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company  
in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 32 - July 2013 Digital IQ.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, IndiaReduce cost
Increase innovation
Increase productivity
Above percentages reflect those respondents from India investing in cloud technologiesAbove percentages reflect those respondents from India investing in cloud technologies
To read our Digital IQ report visit www.pwc.in/industries/technology.jhtml
