Title: pwc_indian-mutual-fund-industry-fv
Date Published: 2013-06-21 13:48:55+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_indian-mutual-fund-industry-fv.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Indian mutual fund industry
Unearthing the growth potential  
in untapped markets
www.pwc.in
Indian mutual fund industry at a glance
Introduction  P4/ The untapped market in India P6/  How to increase the rural footprint P11/ 
Technology as a game changer P13/ Regulatory trends P17/ Our conversations with industry 
stakeholders  P24/ Looking ahead P26

Chairman’s Message 
As we move into the 9th edition of the mutual fund summit, we see how the mutual fund industry has evolved over the 
years, growing and maturing with every development that is taking place. Given the current scenario of market volatility 
and uncertainty, these are challenging times for the mutual fund industry, where the investor perceives investments in the 
capital market to be risky and unsafe, and hesitates to channelize his savings into mutual fund products. 
In such a scenario, the role of the distributor or the financial adviser assumes a lot of importance, as he is the touch point 
for the investor. It rests upon the advisor or the distributor to encourage the investor to purchase mutual fund products and help achieve his financial goals over a fixed period of time. It is important that the investor understands that mutual funds 
are not just investment products, but a solution to their financial requirements. It is critical that the distributor undertakes 
measures and initiatives to educate the investor and increase the level of awareness. Considering the critical role played by the distributor, it is of immense importance that the distributor fraternity is adequately trained and regulated so that the 
mutual fund product is sold for the right purpose and adequate time period. 
Clearly, technology has the potential to increase the depth of penetration and strengthen the distribution network to reach 
beyond the Tier 1 cities. It is only a matter of time when the asset management companies will realise the need to imbibe 
the various emerging technologies and leverage the social media platform. 
As the mutual fund industry matures, it becomes increasingly challenging to identify the catalysts for growth and 
implement new measures to achieve profitability. For instance, the mutual fund industry is now looking towards leveraging 
the pension platform to spur growth of the industry. Also, asset managers are hunting for solutions in the strategy and 
approach followed by other industries and sectors. 
This report by PwC titled ‘Unearthing the growth potential in untapped markets’ discusses some of the pertinent challenges 
faced by the under-penetrated market and seeks to address these challenges by offering some possible recommendations.   
We hope you find this report insightful and useful. We welcome any comments or suggestions on this report to prepare 
better for next year. 
A Balasubramanian  
Chairman - CII Mutual Fund Summit 2013 and 
Chief Executive Officer Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co. Ltd.
Foreword 
It gives us great pleasure to continue our journey with CII into the 9th edition of the Mutual 
Fund summit. 
In this background paper titled ‘‘Unearthing the growth potential in untapped markets”, 
we have attempted to capture some key perspectives of the mutual fund sector. This is in the 
backdrop of the current scenario, both globally and at a national level, where uncertainty 
appears to have become the new ‘normal’, with no immediate sight of an upsurge. 
It is important that mutual funds are positioned as a long-term investment vehicle, with 
the potential to achieve financial goals and provide investment solutions, especially in 
these challenging times.
The underlying thoughts in this paper are centred on the ways in which the challenges 
presented by an under-penetrated market can be addressed. The industry continues to 
grapple with low levels of investor awareness and financial literacy, along with constraints in accessibility and reach. 
This paper provides insights into some of the best practices that the industry can look to 
adopt, evaluates how technology can provide a competitive edge and act as an enabler for 
growth, and captures key regulatory developments that have taken place concerning the 
industry, both in India and overseas. 
We have included some of the insights arising from our conversations with industry 
stakeholders – our sincere thanks for the valued inputs received - and have attempted to 
make some recommendations on the way forward.
We hope you enjoy reading the report and welcome any suggestions you may have. 
Manoj Kashyap  
Leader, Financial Services  
PwC IndiaGautam Mehra  
Leader, Asset Management  
PwC India
PwCThe financial services landscape is transforming, 
with a plethora of changes taking place on the 
regulatory front. Against this backdrop, asset 
management companies (AMCs) realise that they need to re-structure their businesses in order 
to meet the evolving needs of their clients and 
provide them with complete investment solutions. Although emerging markets such as India provide 
a wide range of opportunities, it is important to 
tap into these avenues to fuel the growth of the mutual fund industry. 
The year gone by
Amidst volatility and uncertainty in the markets, average assets under management (AUM) posted 
a growth of 23% for the year ended March 2013. 
This was considerably higher than the 12% growth reported in March 2012. The industry has 
grown at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) 
of 18% from 2009 -2013 (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1 
Growth in average assets under management ( In mn INR) 
CAGR = 18%
4,173,000 6,139,790 5,922,500 6,647,916 8,164,017 
-1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 6,000,000 7,000,000 8,000,000 9,000,000 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 
Source:  AMFI
However, the trend from 2010 depicts that net 
sales for the mutual fund industry has dipped, 
picking up slightly in 2013, to grow by 7%  
(see Figure 2). IntroductionFigure 2 
Net sales vs net redemptions (2009-2013)
Net sales Net redemptions 
Poly. (Net redemptions )020,000,00040,000,00060,000,00080,000,000100,000,000120,000,000
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
 
Source:  AMFI; all data  ( in mn INR) 
A total of 139 new schemes were launched for the year ended March 2013, generating sales of 
236,470 million INR. Furthermore, AUM under 
the equity segment has actually declined 5%, whereas the debt segment has grown significantly 
at 36% (see figure 3), which implies that investors 
are still wary of investing in the market looking for relatively safer investments by directing their 
investments into the debt bucket. Assets under 
management in the liquid and money market and gold exchange traded funds (ETFs) grew by 16% 
and 18% respectively.  
Figure 3 
Category-wise growth in assets under management
050000100000150000200000250000300000350000400000450000
Equity Debt Liquid/Money 
market Gold ETF
2012 2013 
Source:  AMFI
 Indian mutual fund industry   5Net sales increased for the 
year ended March 2013
AUM in equity segment registered  
a declineAssets under management  
grew to 8,164 billion INR
A decline in the total number of foliosHuge inflows in the debt segment, with a significant 
growth in AUM
Net investment for the 
year ended  March 
2013 declinedIn a scenario of declining interest rates, for March 2013 
the distribution of assets under management have understandably been heavily skewed towards debt at 
72% of total assets under management. A fall in interest 
rates is indicative of higher returns for long-term debt and gilt funds. Furthermore, it has been observed that in the 
case of investments held for over a period of 24 months, 
assets under management held by retail investors in the non-equity segment was 36%, whereas for the short term, 
it was only 11%, suggesting the fact that in the current 
environment, investors are preferring debt funds for an even longer time span exceeding 24 months.   
Retail 
Investors One to three months Six to twelve months Over twenty four months 
Equity (% to 
category)4.02 7.52 63.04
Non-equity (% 
to category)11.18 15.96 36.25
Source:  AMFI, March 2013
Even though the industry has witnessed growth during 
the last year, the rise in assets under management has 
been coupled with erosion of the investor base, evident 
from the loss of 3.6 million folios as at March 2013. The equity segment saw a decline of 4.4 million folios, 
although the debt segment showed an addition of 0.8 
million folios. This again indicates that investors are inclined towards relatively safer investments, not wanting 
to undertake risk in these volatile and uncertain markets. 
A rise has also been reported in the AMFI registration 
number (ARN) registrations, as a consequence of 
reduction in ARN fees. Since the SEBI permitted retired bank officials, school teachers, postal agents, etc to sell 
mutual fund schemes, AMCs have been geared up to 
derive maximum benefit from this opportunity to create a far-reaching distribution network, especially in B-15 
cities and towns. An additional reason for AMCs to draw 
on this opportunity is being able to charge a higher total expense ratio if they achieve their investment targets in 
these cities. Industry at glance
23%
8% 7 %
5%36%
33%
PwCThe Indian population is largely under-banked 
with a very low level of financial inclusion leaving 
room for further penetration. 
The extent of under-penetration in the market is a 
sore point with the banking and financial services 
industry, with a large amount of savings being channelised into gold and real estate rather than the capital market. The GDP growth has slowed 
down, sluggish at 5% in 2012-13, with savings and 
investment rates following a downward trend. In 
2010-11, the savings and investment rates were 
34% and 36.8%, respectively, which declined to 30.8% and 35%, respectively, in 2011-12 and 
31.8% and 35.4% in 2012-13. 
Comparing India to other countries, we realise 
how financial inclusion is yet to be achieved (see Figure 4). While the UK and the US have 25.5 
and 35.7 branches per 0.1 million  adults and 
developing countries such as Brazil have 13.8 branches per 0.1 million adults, India is at a 
staggeringly low figure of 10.9 branches per 0.1 
million adults. 
Figure 4 
Financial inclusion data as compared to other economies
10.913.8 11.825.535.7
5.4120.6
48.264.6173.8
0.050.0100.0150.0200.0250.0300.0350.0400.0450.0500.0
0.020.040.060.080.0100.0120.0140.0160.0180.0200.0
India Brazil Austria UK USNo. of Branches No. of ATMs
Bank Credit  
Source:  World Bank, Financial Access Survey; 2010 data 
Note:  No. of branches and  ATMs  per 0.1 million adults The untapped 
market in IndiaFor savings to be streamlined into the capital market, 
investors need to first and foremost be made aware of 
avenues and opportunities. 
The mutual fund industry is yet to spread its reach 
beyond Tier I cities. The top five cities contribute to 
74% of the pie, with the remaining 26% distributed among other cities (see Figure 5). Statistics show 
that in March 2013, penetration in the top five cities 
increased to 74% as compared to 71 in March 2012, whereas for cities beyond the top five, penetration  
has decreased. 
One of the prime areas the industry is focusing on is 
developing the penetration ratio and increasing its 
presence in other cities. 
Figure 5 
Assets under management: Geographical distribution
March 2013
74%13%6%5%3%
Top 5 cities
Next 10 cities
Next 20 cities
Next 75 cities
Other cities
Top 5 cities
Next 10 cities
Next 20 cities
Next 75 cities
Other citiesMarch 2012
71%14%7%6%3%
 
Source:  AMFI
Another interesting fact worth noting  is how skewed 
the business from the industry is, with the top ten  
fund houses contributing 77% of the total assets under 
management and the bottom ten a mere 1%.
 Indian mutual fund industry   7Challenges of an under-penetrated market
The under-penetrated market in India, although showcasing 
huge opportunities for market players to sell their products, 
places multiple roadblocks to tap into these opportunities up 
to their optimum potential.
Low level of 
awareness and financial literacy Cultural and 
attitudinal 
changes
Reach and scalability Adapting the distribution  channel
Some basic challenges arise due to very low levels of 
awareness and financial literacy. The situation in these cases 
is such that even if the ability to invest exists, these savings 
are prevented from being directed into mutual fund products. This is because of the slow capital market growth, lack of 
awareness of mutual funds being a low-cost investment 
vehicle and the returns they can generate. In this case, there is also the interplay of cultural and behavioural change which 
prevents savings from being streamlined into investment 
products, diverted from gold or property. Indians still feel that gold and property is a less risky alternative as compared 
to investment in the capital markets. Also, investors are not 
aware of low risk products that they can invest in. A culture change is required in this case, if people are to be convinced  
to invest in the capital markets. 
In order to reach the bottom of the pyramid, 
challenges remain in terms of the unavailability 
of proper documentation, unavailability of PAN 
card, bank account, etc. However, it is likely that 
the roll out of ‘Aadhaar’ initiative will to some 
extent resolve these problems. 
PwCAgainst the above backdrop, distributing mutual 
fund products continues to be a challenge. 
Post the regulatory changes in August 2009, 
which restricted entry load on mutual funds, the industry went through a period of sluggish 
growth, resulting in a lack of incentive to sell 
mutual fund products. Subsequently, a number of independent financial advisors (IFAs) and 
other distributors stopped pushing mutual fund 
products to investors and dropped out  of the market. 
In order to shift the sales incentive plans from 
the traditional front-ended schemes to trail 
orientation, SEBI recently announced significant 
changes to the commission structures.
Commissions are now payable through a 
trail mechanism where the advisor receives 
commission on the assets retained by a scheme 
or fund on an on-going basis. This takes away the temptation to cause investment churn for 
commissions. Also, in order to deepen the 
penetration beyond the top 15 metros or cities, 
the regulation now permits fund- houses to 
charge an additional fee of up to 0.3% more for the expense on the investment flows from small 
cities and towns (beyond the defined top 15). 
However, this is associated with mutual funds drawing 30% of new inflows from these smaller 
towns. For example, if a fund house gets less 
investment, such as say 10% of new investment, then the ratio will go up by 0.1% only. This is 
likely to push distributors to penetrate markets 
further, increasing the sales of mutual fund products and thereby bringing in new investors. Going beyond 
the metrosThe IFA connection
The independent financial advisor (IFA) is a crucial 
link in the distribution chain of mutual funds. This 
segment has potential in widening the distribution 
network and expanding the client base on a sustainable basis. To encourage first-time distributors, 
AMFI has placed a waiver of around 3,000 INR on 
registration fees for first-time distributors, for a period of five months, valid until 30 June, 2013.  
IFAs exercise a strong influence over customers and 
thereby have the key to building a strong relationship 
with their clientele. Right from scheme selection to asset allocation and asset diversification, it is the IFAs 
who can mould the customers’ thoughts and direct 
their investments into appropriate channels. IFAs draw up a financial plan based on the financial goals 
and requirements of their clients before suggesting 
any investments. They are also responsible for monitoring these investments at regular intervals 
to ensure that there is limited diversion from the 
ultimate financial goal of the investor, and to advise 
the best possible path in conditions of market 
volatility and uncertainty.  
The recipe for success of the advisory model is 
basic. The starting point is to understand what your 
customer intends to achieve as part of his or her financial plan and the kind of returns he or she is 
looking at over a period of time. Also, there is a need 
to focus on asset allocation. IFAs also need to gauge the extent of risk which the investor can take and 
suggest funds or schemes suited to his or her appetite. 
Hence, it is of prime importance that IFAs are 
empowered with professional training and education. 
This can be done through regular knowledge 
summits, seminars, etc across cities. 
The AMC community is also supportive of the 
IFA fraternity, extending support for business development, training requirements and  
investor education. 
 Indian mutual fund industry   9
According to a survey conducted by 
Franklin Templeton, spanning 9518 
investors across 19 countries in 
Asia, America and Europe, around 
69% (more than two-thirds) of 
Indian investors are willing to pay a 
fee to their financial advisors.  One of the key challenges that IFAs face is again that of 
investor education and low levels of financial literacy in 
the smaller cities. IFAs need to invest in spreading investor 
awareness through regular programs and campaigns beyond the top 15 cities.  
Another threat to IFAs arises out of the introduction of the 
direct plan option for customers. One aspect that the IFAs 
need to consider is technology, as its usage can help reduce 
operational hassles. Their approach needs to be more service oriented rather than transaction oriented. 
Although fund houses do not need to pay commissions on 
selling mutual funds, they need to set up offices to service 
their clients. This will hamper their reach to a larger set of 
consumers. Typically, AMC’s find it a less expensive decision 
to pay commissions to distributors than communicate through 
other channels. 
One of the primary catalysts which will lead a fund house 
towards growth and profitability is a strong distribution 
network and a sustainable distribution model. To this effect, it will prove beneficial for AMCs to empanel a large number of 
IFAs in their distribution spectrum. 
Other constraints to increasing penetration
The debate continues over a trail-based commission model 
or the advisory model, which will prove to be more profitable 
and sustainable in the long run. The goal is to increase retail 
penetration and there are two ways of looking at it. IFAs usually charge an upfront commission for any sale they make. However, moving to a full trail commission model for 
this segment may turn out to be rewarding in the long run. 
This will reduce exit of funds and rein in stability to the asset management business. It will also generate higher returns for 
the IFAs as compared to upfront commissions, as the trail fee 
will be calculated on the latest valuation of assets.  
PwCThe SEBI directive indicates that the amount of funds 
collected from exit loads will need to be credited back 
to the schemes. Also, if there is redemption before the 
designated period of one year, then the option of a claw back of commissions can be exercised. Hence it is 
up to the AMCs and distributors to come out with the 
optimal upfront-trail commission structures taking into considerations these clawback provisions.      
Cost concerns continue to plague the industry exerting 
pressure on some of the smaller fund houses, leading to a sustainability issue. 
There is also another school of thought which 
showcases a view on captive distribution. For example, a bank-backed AMC with a captive distribution is 
attractive from an AMC’s point of view, but in all 
likelihood, it is less attractive for the distributor to  sell the product of a single AMC.
In order to tackle these challenges and lead a focussed 
approach to increase presence beyond the top 15 
cities, it will be useful to look at what other industries 
have done or what other countries are doing and adopt some of the best practices. 
Mutual funds need to be marketed 
as a ‘concept’ in order to create a 
strong pull from customers. Ideally, 
they need to be marketed as 
products with a maturity period 
ranging from five to 10 years.  
 Indian mutual fund industry   11Microfinance institutions (MFIs) 
MFIs have encountered success in reaching out 
to customers at the bottom of the pyramid. MFIs have focussed on increased access to savings 
and credit in rural areas and have demonstrated 
the feasibility of providing customised banking services to customers through self-help 
groups(SHGs).
Shift from a ‘supply-led’ to a ‘demand-
driven’ approach
This requires a reshuffling of delivery mechanisms 
with respect to the time and adequacy of services 
offered. The intermediary environment which 
consists of interacting with client individuals as well as groups is peculiar to MFIs and is 
responsible for the strong presence of the industry. 
A bottoms-up approach promoting interactions with wholesalers, semi-wholesalers, individual 
advisors and apex institutions can help create 
awareness of product details. Investing in such a detailed network will prove beneficial to industry 
players who are new entrants in Tier II cities and 
rural areas.
Tap self-help groups and cooperatives
MFIs have focussed on increased access to savings and credit in rural areas and have demonstrated 
the feasibility of providing customised banking 
services to SHG clients. The rural population does not lack investing capacity, though it is still an 
unexplored market due to prevailing asymmetries 
in information. The mutual funds industry needs How to increase 
the rural footprintto accustom itself with the phenomenal spread of 
SHGs and customise the product delivery system, 
making it client-oriented. The way a scheme is 
pitched in a semi-urban or rural zone should vary to suit the consumer.
Innovative delivery mechanisms
Alternate delivery systems that involve engaging local social agencies, building strategic partnerships 
with retailers, using the business facilitator and correspondent or franchisee models promoted by 
the RBI and establishing branchless operations with relevant infrastructure can be modified to suit 
industry requirements.
FMCG industry 
The FMCG industry is probably one of the first 
industries that was successful in breaking the 
physical barriers of reach and penetrating the 
rural areas with their products. Leading FMCG companies have undertaken projects such as ‘Shakti’ 
and ‘e-choupal’ to stay ahead of their competitors by 
creating a distinct presence in the rural areas. 
Four-fold strategy of a leading FMCG 
company: 
Direct 
Coverage Indirect Coverage 
Streamline Project Shakti Four-fold 
strategy
PwC•	 Direct coverage  –The company appointed the same supplier to 
supply to all outlets within a town and sell a limited selection of 
the brand portfolio.  Towns are defined as populations of under 
50,000 people.
•	 Indirect coverage  – The company targeted retailers in accessible 
villages close to larger urban markets.  Retail suppliers were allocated a fixed route ensuring that all accessible villages in the 
vicinity were served at least  
once a fortnight.
•	 Streamline – This approach implied leveraging the rural 
wholesale network to reach markets inaccessible by road.  Star Sellers were appointed among wholesalers in a particular village, 
to purchase stock from a local distributor and then distribute this to retailers in smaller villages using local means of transport such 
as cycles, rickshaws etc. 
•	 Project Shakti - Project Shakti targeted the very small villages ( <2,000) and tapped into pre-existing women’s self help groups 
(SHG).  Underprivileged rural women were invited to become direct-to-consumer sales distributors for the company’s products. 
Termed Shakti Ammas, these women represent the company and 
sell its home-care, health, and hygiene products in their villages.
In 2010, the company rolled out the Shaktimaan initiative through Project Shakti. In this case, the men in the Shakti Amma families distribute products to the neighbouring Shakti villages. The 
shaktimaan is provided with bicycles to travel to villages. Through 
Project Shakti and Shaktimaan, the company covers 100,000 villages spanning 15 states in India and over 3 million households 
every month. 
The Telecom industry
Bharati Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) in India had the first- 
mover advantage of reaching out to the rural belt with telecom 
connectivity. Now however other private players are present in 
these markets.
1Strategy followed by telecom operators 
Accessibility
Affordability
AwarenessAvailabilityMarket segmentation
Partnership with other sectors  
Empowerment of the rural segment
Customised marketing and distribution1
2
3
4Telecom operators have typically followed the strategy 
of creating awareness with their multiple promotional 
campaigns providing information to customers, mostly 
through TV and radio. Also, awareness programmes are conducted in regional languages to establish a 
better connection. It is of prime importance that rural 
customers are convinced about the product sold to them, and they are in a position to purchase them. It is 
interesting to note that the rural segment is more adept 
at purchasing products in small quantities at a higher frequency. 
Hence BSNL’s strategy to launch 10 INR, 20 INR, 30 
INR (low-value recharge) coupons goes a long way in 
meeting customer requirements. The toughest challenge 
is to deal with distribution, due to lack of adequate infrastructure facilities. BSNL has tied up with private 
vendors to make its products easily available to the  
rural segment. 
The postal network
The Department of Posts has been involved in rural development for the last 150 years. With over 139,000 
post offices in rural areas, it provides support in various 
critical functions through communication, financial services, life insurance products and other retail 
services. The small savings scheme which is operated 
through post offices helps in mobilising the savings of rural people. The Department is also contributing to 
the efforts in financial inclusion by payment of benefits 
under various social security pension schemes viz. Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAS), 
Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme 
(IGNDPS) and Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana (IGMSY Scheme), a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) 
Maternity Benefit Scheme. Such payments are being 
effected either through money orders or post office saving bank account. 
 The mutual fund industry can assess the strategies 
enumerated above and adapt best practices to penetrate the rural markets better and increase reach. 
1 International Journal of Management and Information Technology, Volume 1, September 2012; Rural Marketing practices for telecom services, research sup -
ported by Nokia Siemens network 
 Indian mutual fund industry   13The power of mobile banking
The revolution in mobile banking is well-
equipped to penetrate rural markets, and 
bring a larger number of people under 
the umbrella of financial services. Mobile banking has the potential to be a game changer for the financial services industry, 
because it can utilise already existing 
infrastructure to reach out to the un-banked population in rural areas. Additionally, new 
distribution channels can be explored for 
cash transactions beyond the POS and ATM 
networks of banks. 
Some fund houses are also riding on the 
mobile wave and using this route to make the operational procedure simpler and hassle-
free for investors. They can either opt for 
application based or SMS based investing. SMS based investing is simpler and does 
not require the user to have a smart phone 
or high internet connectivity, whereas 
application based services require a smart 
phone with GPRS connectivity. 2Leveraging mobile banking in Zimbabwe:  
A case study 
Background:  Only 20% of Africans have a bank 
account. Rural branchless banking is based on a business 
correspondent model, in which the agent, associated 
with an MFI caters to specific villages. Telecom provider, Econet plans to deploy 500 Eco-cash agents throughout 
Zimbabwe. It has also liaised with 200 post offices and 
300 independent agents. 
How the model works: Firstly, the user needs to 
register for mobile phone banking with his or her service 
provider, subsequent to which he or she is provided 
with an ‘e-wallet’ an application linked to his or her phone number. To conduct a money transfer or paying 
for any service, the user needs to go to an agent and pay 
the designated amount, which is then loaded on to the ‘e-wallet’. The payment is complete and the user can 
withdraw money from the agent as well. There are various 
agents networked with mobile service providers across the country, facilitating the service in rural areas.   
Results of the study:  Most Zimbabweans own a mobile 
phone today in both rural and urban areas (See table below). Also, the flood of cheap Chinese products has 
made the mobile phone more accessible than ever. In 
addition, the Eco-cash product can be used without opening a bank account, just with the use of a mobile.
Mobile users Frequency Mobile phone users (%)
Have a cellphone 25 83
Do not have 5 17
Total 30 100
Learning from the study: This whole study concluded with the thought that to extract the maximum from 
mobile technology, it is necessary to have agents as in 
the case of Econet. The study also revealed that the rural population is ready to pay a fee to the person who owns 
a mobile phone for receiving and replying to messages. 
Banks can in this way explore the option of bringing mobile booths to the unbanked population, and reaching out to the unbanked.  With a subscriber base of over 
900 million, mobile phones 
can be used as a huge 
facilitator to investing, 
redeeming and exiting funds! 
2 IOSR Journal of Humanities and Social Science, Volume 9 – Mobile banking the future to rural financial inclusion- Case study of ZimbabweTechnology as a 
game changer
PwCThough the industry has seen overall growth in 
the last two years, it faces a significant challenge 
with respect to penetration into new markets 
and also consolidation of the industry. In the current situation, there is an urgent need to scale 
up business in cities beyond Tier I, along with 
retaining existing customers.  
There is immense scope for the unprecedented 
growth of the industry and this can be rooted 
back to innovative and efficient use of technology. 
With increasing competition in this space, it is 
imperative that funds are prepared for investment in technology to both widen customer base as 
well as operate efficiently. 
Customer and business partner 
engagement: Customer Relationship Management technologies
With a slew of new fund houses and banks 
offering new products, there is a greater need now than ever to focus on customer and business 
partner engagement. Customer Relationship 
Management (CRM) primarily aids in getting an overall perspective of the customer or 
partner. It helps in providing differentiated 
and personalised experiences to the customer or partner based on their profile, income and 
business group’s and past transactions. 
CRM helps in drawing increased revenues from 
customers as it allows for the utilisation of 
available customer information to sell product suites across segments. CRM also allows for fund 
houses to improve business processes and drive 
efficiency based on customer feedback. This can act as a key to customer retention in light of 
increased competition. With regard to partners, 
CRM applications provide lead management support, reporting and a channel to log incidents 
and provide process tracking support. Leading with 
technologyCreating data warehouses by 
integrating registrar data with  finance, Human Resources and other internal data
As fund houses grow, data management becomes a 
key issue. Implementing data management initiatives 
not only allows for scalability and supporting business 
needs within required turn-around times, but it also is a platform for reporting and analytics. 
Along with better information management, data 
warehouses can provide standard and ad-hoc reporting 
capabilities to the business users, encompassing areas of customer segmentation and profitability 
across products and services (360° customer view), 
consolidated revenue data and identification of cross-selling opportunities. 
Near real time integration of different registrar data 
with the fund house data warehouse can help the 
fund house to understand redemptions, withdrawals, 
subscriptions, switching of mutual funds on a real time basis. Fund managers can take quicker decisions by 
analysing the registrar data, as they will be able to get 
early warnings. Financial analysis of different patterns on switching, subscription, redemption etc can be 
performed.
The benefits that this offers are both in the form of 
enhancing operational efficiency and developing 
customer centric products with a focus on profitability 
and better customer service.
Leveraging analytics to up-sell and 
cross-sell
Data warehouses are a first step towards creating 
information management systems, Reporting systems 
and dashboards. These, in turn, can be used by 
different levels of management from an operational perspective and a strategic perspective. The operational 
component can broadly involve streamlining and 
automating business processes like sales, marketing 
and service. The strategic component can involve 
development of new products targeting new customer segments, cross-sell to existing customers and enhance 
customer relationship. 
The key to growth in the industry is to tailor products 
to suit customer requirements. Analytics can be leveraged to create differentiation amongst products 
 Indian mutual fund industry   15in terms of specialisation, new features and value-additions 
to focus on different customer segments with different 
requirements. Quicker access to information and market 
intelligence through analytics can be used to gain insights on product positioning, understanding market share and 
performance as compared to other funds which can help add 
new distribution channels and drive more business.  Thus applying advanced analytical techniques will  
maximise revenues through higher customer retention  
and increased wallet share achieved by providing consistent services and cross-selling. 
Digital strategy enabling sales channels 
with mobiles or tablets
The rapid growth of usage of mobiles and tablets offers an 
opportunity to empower sales channels to reach markets 
with less penetration. This can be especially effective 
for value added services such as Portfolio Management Services. Enabling salespersons with mobiles or tablets 
takes the POS to the customer allowing for faster business 
deals. Salespersons are able to capture business critical 
information, store it in a central secure place (the cloud) 
and can access it from their devices. They can complete the deal using a tablet, starting from educating customers about 
products, capturing information and signatures as well.
Increased accessibility to mobile phones and the internet  
in Tier II and Tier III cities can be used as a platform to 
educate consumers regarding products and its benefits. 
Mobiles powered with the internet can be used as an important information source for unit holders and 
prospective investors. Mobile or tablet applications can 
act as a touch point for customers where they can perform transactions. Applications let fund houses engage in ‘one-to-
one marketing’.
The usage of mobiles or tablets by sales channels and has  
far reaching effects and can be a facilitator to break down 
un-penetrated markets. 
Social media as a new marketing platform 
Social media is flourishing. Leading fund companies know that participation is no longer an option, but a 
requirement. While social media cannot replace face-to-face communication, it can enhance the overall customer 
experience and create new sales and servicing opportunities. 
Most importantly, social media is no longer considered an emerging technology – it has arrived and is here to stay.Social media is a huge opportunity to create awareness about products and connect with the youth today. Social media, when done well, can create a collaborative dialogue with 
a large, but very specific audience – one person at a time. 
And, it’s successful because it breaks down formal barriers. Social media provides an opportunity for instantaneous 
communication and promotes collaboration across functional 
groups and geographic regions. At its most powerful, it can bring the full weight of millions behind identified ideas and 
actions – within a short time span.
It’s a misnomer that social media is yet another marketing 
platform for fund companies. From a customer-facing 
perspective, social media can definitely enhance and protect your corporate brand reputation. Increasingly, a lot of 
companies use social media to engage with customers for 
product innovation, customer service, distribution of real time information with the aim to create unique solutions and 
experiences for customers. Social collaboration networks 
when used internally can help build a dynamic and creative work environment, it can enable organisations to instantly 
take the pulse on critical organizational issues and enable 
virtual workplace solutions. Social business intelligence is our point of view on how companies are translating customer 
conversations on social media channels into actionable 
business insights.
MonitorCreate 
awarness
LeverageCreate content that propagates 
through social media
•	Facebook pages/apps to create 
awareness
•	Blogs discussing products & 
benefits
•	Forums enabling existing customers to air their issues
•	Monitor the effectiveness of the campaign through Analytics
•	Impact of a particular event of 
a negative fleet of feedback, 
areas of weakness •	Hear the feedback, snoop 
into the discussion forums 
and blogs
•	Track the customer sentiment post
•	purchase, through the 
feedback captured at 
customer touch points, 
as well as on the public/
protected forums
PwC3FINO: Leveraging technology for financial 
inclusion in India 
Background:  Financial Information Network and Operations 
Private Limited (FINO) in India is a pioneer in an agent- led 
banking platform to reach out to the unbanked population. The 
model has been able to deal with the challenges arising out of inadequate infrastructure and absence of documentation of 
individuals. 
How it works: FINO makes use of biometric technology to provide 
smart-card based solutions to banks across India. This technology helps identify users based on their fingerprints and services that 
category of people who are unable to visit a bank due to challenges 
of distance, illiteracy, etc. 
Results: FINO has presence in 20 states and is moving towards 
establishing its presence in every district of India. Based on the latest statistics, FINO has over 5,000 centres across India in 
166 districts.  Currently, there are 18,000 wireless, biometric 
terminals which simplify the user identification process, providing fast, reliable transactions. This technology also enables access to 
micro banking for the underprivileged (5,000,000 card-holders 
registered in three years), delivering a cost-effective, secure solution.  
Learning from the study: The key take-away from this study is 
that technology can be leveraged extensively to service the bottom of the pyramid customers. The solution itself proves to be cost-
effective, resulting in operational efficiencies. This technology is 
equipped to service a range of micro credit applications and other value added services.   Investor awareness: What is being done 
differently today
Since AMCs realised that they need to invest in financial 
education and awareness in order to reap long-term 
benefits, campaigns to educate the customer have picked up 
momentum as fund houses try to bring novelty to the way they connect with their target customers. While the aim is 
educating the customers and making them aware of mutual 
funds as an investment vehicle; at times opportunities also arise where these customers show an interest in purchasing 
these products. 
Some of the notable initiatives by fund houses are:
• ‘Professor Simply Simple’ (PSS) to simplify financial terms 
and explain to the customer terminologies in an easy way. 
The USP is giving lessons and videos which connect better with people. There are plans to involve investors in games 
to engage their interests better.  
• Mass media campaigns which try to tackle some of the 
foremost questions that investors have on their minds. 
Currently, it is a print campaign with plans to launch 
outdoor and online campaigns. 
• Another campaign uses the tag line Janoge tabhi to 
maanoge , and it involves using radio and micro-sites as a 
medium to reach-out to investors. 
• An ‘Invest correctly ’ campaign using print, digital and 
outdoor media. This fund house also has a section on its 
website which details investor education. 
• The ‘ Winvestor ’ initiative which is directed towards female 
investors, to encourage them to plan for their future and chart their financial plans. Financial planning clinics are held where women get a chance to discuss their financial 
queries with a female advisor ‘Winvisor’.   
AMFI’s contribution to Investor Awareness 
AMFI is running a 360 degree campaign, ‘ Savings ka naya 
tarika ’, which was first launched in September 2011. This 
nation-wide campaign with a budget of 100 million INR 
proved to be extremely successful, receiving a response of over 30,000 messages (SMS) from investors. Mutual fund 
booklets were sent out to these people who had responded 
to this campaign, with a call centre also being set-up to address queries of investors. 
In addition to this, AMFI has also launched television 
commercials to reach out to a larger audience and spread investor education to attract more retail participation.    
3  Guide to Inclusive Business Models in IFCs portfolio case study (updated as at Aug 2012)Progress of the industry: 
From May 2010 to May 2013, 36 AMCs have 
conducted 31,283 programs in 485 cities covering 944,772 participants
In the financial year 2012-13, 32 AMCs had 
conducted 12,208 programs in 485 cities covering 248,047 participants. 
In the current financial year in the months of April & 
May 2013, 29 AMCs have conducted 1,856 programs in 193 cities covering 37 ,351 participants
 Indian mutual fund industry   17Re-energising mutual fund industry and 
continued focus on investor protection
Regulatory  updates
During the year, the Securities and Exchange  
Board of India (‘SEBI’) announced a series of  
measures to invigorate the mutual fund industry, 
especially distribution of mutual funds. A gist of the regulatory amendments announced during the year is 
appended below.
• Steps to re-energise the industry
The SEBI vide  a circular1  announced  
the following measures:
For mutual fund investors:
Separate plan for direct investors
To promote direct investment by the investors in 
existing and new schemes, the SEBI directed mutual 
funds / asset management companies (‘AMC’) to provide a separate plan for direct investments with a 
lower expense ratio. Furthermore, no commission or 
brokerage can  be paid from such plans.
Single plan structure for mutual fund schemes
To remove disparity in expense structure of different 
plans, the SEBI directed mutual funds / AMCs to 
launch schemes under a single plan, and ensure 
that all new investors are subject to a single expense structure.
Cash investments in mutual funds
In order to enhance the reach of mutual fund 
products amongst small investors who may not 
be tax payers and who may not have Permanent Regulatory 
trendsAccount Numbers / bank accounts, the SEBI 
permitted cash transactions in mutual fund 
schemes to the extent of Rs. 20,000 per investor 
per mutual fund per financial year, subject to compliance with anti-money laundering rules and 
regulations. 
Investor education and awareness
The SEBI directed mutual funds / AMCs to,  
annually, set apart at least two basis points on  
daily net assets within the maximum limit of total 
expense ratio (‘TER’) for investor education and awareness initiatives.
Harmonising applicability of Net Asset Value 
(‘NAV’) across schemes
The SEBI directed that in respect of purchase of  
units of mutual fund schemes (other than liquid 
schemes), the closing NAV of the day on which the 
funds are actually for available for utilisation shall be applicable irrespective of the time of receipt of 
application. This would apply in cases where the 
mutual fund investments are made for an amount  
of INR 2 lakhs or more.
Disclosure requirements
The SEBI directed additional disclosure requirements 
pertaining to portfolio disclosures, financial result 
disclosures, etc. on mutual funds/AMCs.
For distributors:
Additional TER on inflows from smaller  
cities/towns
To improve the geographical reach of mutual funds, 
AMCs are now allowed to charge additional TER (up 
to 30 bps) with respect to inflows beyond top 15 cities, 
subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
Widening of distributors base
To increase the base of mutual fund distributors, 
the SEBI has permitted a new cadre of distributors 
which includes postal agents, retired government 
and semi-government officials, retired teachers, 
retired bank officers and other persons (such as bank correspondents) to sell units of simple and performing mutual fund schemes. 
1 Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/21/2012 dated September 13, 2012
PwCFor AMCs:
Service tax chargeable to scheme
The SEBI allowed AMCs to charge service tax payable on 
investment and advisory fees to the mutual fund scheme, in addition to the maximum amount of TER.
Prudential limits on portfolio concentration risk
The SEBI directed mutual funds/AMCs to ensure that 
the total exposure of debt schemes of mutual funds in a 
particular sector (excluding investments in Bank CDs, CBLO, G-Secs, T-Bills and AAA rated securities issued by 
Public Financial Institutions and Public Sector Banks) 
shall not exceed 30% of the net assets of the scheme. 
In light of the important role played by the Housing 
Finance Companies (‘HFC’) in the housing sector, the SEBI 
vide a subsequent circular
2  has permitted an additional 
exposure not exceeding 10% of net assets of the debt oriented scheme for investments in HFCs.
• Product Labeling in mutual funds
To address the issue of mis-selling, the SEBI vide its 
circular3 , has, with effect from July 1, 2013, directed 
all existing schemes and all schemes to be launched on 
or thereafter, to be labelled considering the level of risk 
associated with them. Product labels must be disclosed in the Key Information Memorandum, Scheme Information 
Documents and common application forms.
• Participation in Credit Default Swaps (‘CDS’) 
and in repo
The SEBI, vide its circular4 , has permitted mutual funds 
to buy credit protection to hedge the credit risk on their 
investments in corporate bonds, subject to compliance 
with the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) guidelines on CDS for corporate bonds. However, mutual funds cannot 
sell protection, and hence they cannot enter into short 
positions in the CDS contracts. 
• Deployment of client’s fund in liquid mutual 
funds by portfolio managers
The SEBI, vide its circular5  has clarified that  
pending investment of funds by portfolio managers,  
they can deploy funds, on short term basis, in liquid 
mutual fund schemes.• Investments by Qualified Foreign  
Investors (‘QFI’)
The limits applicable for investments made by QFIs in mutual 
funds have been revised upwards to:
• The aggregate investments by QFIs in equity schemes of mutual funds shall be capped at a maximum of USD 10 billion 
•  Investment in corporate debt securities and mutual fund debt 
schemes is subject to a total overall ceiling of USD 1 billion 
• Additionally, up to USD 3 billion can be invested in those debt mutual fund schemes that hold atleast 25% of their assets in the infrastructure sector (either in debt, equity, or both)
• Key policy announcements in Union  
Budget 2013 
As a part of the budget speech, the Finance Minister 
announced the following:
• Introduction of a dedicated debt segment on the stock exchange on which debt mutual fund schemes can be traded.
• Mutual fund distributors to be allowed as members in the 
mutual fund segment of the stock exchange.
• Pension funds and provident funds to be permitted to invest in exchange traded funds, debt mutual funds and asset backed 
securities.
Taxation updates
• Extension of tax benefits under RGESS
Vide the Finance Act 2013; the following amendments have been incorporated:
• Investments in listed units of an equity oriented fund are eligible for deduction;
• The period to claim the deduction has been extended from 
one year to three consecutive years. 
• The income threshold of an individual tax payer for being eligible to claim the deduction has been increased from 
INR 1 million to INR 1.2 million.
• Special taxation regime for securitisation trusts 
The Securitisation Trust would be required to pay additional income-tax on the income distributed by it, as follows:
1. Where recipients of income are not chargeable to tax (for example, as illustrated in the Memorandum explaining the provisions of the Finance Bill, 2013, mutual funds)– Nil;
2  Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/24/2012 dated November 19, 2012
3  Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/5/2013 dated March 18, 20134  Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/23/2012 dated November 15, 2012
5  Circular No. Cir. /IMD/DF-1/16/2012 dated July 16, 2012
 Indian mutual fund industry   192. Individuals and HUFs – 25%;
3. Any other person – 30%.
• Income subjected to the income distribution tax as above, shall be 
exempt in the hands of the recipients.Reduction in rates of Securities 
Transaction Tax (‘STT’) for equity oriented funds
• Reduction in rates of Securities Transaction Tax  
(‘STT’) for equity oriented funds
The Finance Act, 2013 has reduced the rates of STT on purchase 
and sale of equity oriented mutual funds as under:
Nature of transactions Before 
1.6.2013On and after 1.6.2013
Delivery-based purchase on 
recognised stock exchange0.1% Nil
Delivery-based sale on recognised stock exchange0.1% 0.001%
Sale to the mutual fund 0.25% 0.001%
• Increase in tax rates for income distributed by debt 
schemes
The tax rate on income distributed by a debt mutual fund scheme is 
increased from 12.5% to 25%, where the income is distributed to an 
individual or a Hindu undivided family. 
• Infrastructure Debt Fund (‘IDF MF’) scheme6 
Background
In order to attract funds for infrastructure financing, the 
infrastructure debt fund scheme was launched where a NBFC or a 
mutual fund can set up an Infrastructure Debt Fund. The salient features of the IDF MF scheme are as follows:
• IDF MFs can be set up by any existing mutual fund. Additionally, companies which have been engaged in infrastructure financing 
can set-up mutual funds exclusively for the purpose of launching 
IDF MF Schemes.
• IDF MFs are required to invest at least 90% of their assets in debt 
securities of infrastructure companies, infrastructure special 
purpose vehicles (‘SPV’) (not more than 10% to be invested in listed or unlisted equity).
• Minimum investment in IDF MF from a single investor should be at least INR 1o million with a unit size of at least INR 1 million. IDF MFs are required to have a firm commitment to the extent of 
INR 250 million from strategic investors.
• IDF MFs should have a minimum of five investors.
8  Notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/31/1778 dated January 21, 2013To provide fiscal incentive, the withholding rate 
on interest to be received by non-residents from 
IDF, set up as a NBFC was reduced to 5%. However, 
distribution of income by an IDF-MF continued to a distribution tax at the rate of 12.5%/30%. 
On account of this disparity on the rates, IDF-MF 
structures were of a competitive disadvantage as 
compared to IDF-NBFC structure. 
In order to address the issue of the disparity in 
rates, the Finance Act, 2013, has now reduced 
the dividend distribution tax rates for income 
distributed by an IDF MF to a non-resident from 12.5% / 30% to 5%. The amendment is expected 
to provide impetus to IDF MFs, and could pave the 
way for investments in infrastructure debt schemes launched by mutual funds.
PwCOther regulatory changes
• Private placement
Private placement to less than 50 investors has been 
permitted as an alternative to a new fund offer to the 
public. In the case of private placement, the mutual funds would have to file a placement memorandum 
with the SEBI, instead of a scheme information 
document and a key information memorandum.
• Widening of strategic investors
The universe of strategic investors in the IDF MF has been expanded to include, systemically important NBFCs registered with RBI and certain categories of 
Foreign Institutional Investors which are long term 
investors as per the norms specified by SEBI. Debt securities below investment grade
The overall investments by an infrastructure debt 
scheme in debt instruments or assets of infrastructure companies/projects/SPVs, which are rated ‘below the 
investment grade’ or are ‘unrated’, shall not exceed 
30% of the net assets of the scheme. However, the  limit may increase up to 50% with the prior approval 
of the AMC.
Overseas Regulatory developments 
Europe
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (‘AIFMD’) is 
a European Directive which aims at providing a harmonised 
regulatory and supervisory framework for managers of 
Alternative Investment Funds (‘AIFs’) within the EU. AIFMD 
has issued rules regarding the organisation and business of the managers, imposes certain new requirements on the 
AIFs and allows their marketing to professional investors via 
a passport throughout the EU. The ultimate deadline for EU Member States to transpose the AIFMD into their national law 
is July 2013. The following European countries namely the 
Netherlands, United Kingdom, Luxembourg, France, Germany, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ireland, Latvia, 
Malta, Slovakia and Sweden have taken steps to transpose the 
AIFMD into their national law.Promotion of global supervisory co-operation on alternative 
funds
The European Securities and Markets Authority (‘ESMA’) 
has recently agreed co-operation arrangements between EU securities regulators and 34 of their global counterparts. 
ESMA has acted on behalf of all 27 EU Member State securities regulators as well for Croatia, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. 
These arrangements concerned the authorities in charge of the 
supervision of AIFs (hedge funds, private equity and real estate funds) to improve co-operation in the cross-border supervision 
of depositaries and AIF managers by facilitating the exchange of 
information.
The arrangements will also apply to non-EU fund managers 
that manage or market AIFs in the EU as well the opposite: EU fund managers that manage or market AIFs in third countries. 
The co-operation arrangements in the form of a Memorandum 
of Understanding will be applicable as from July 22, 2013. Currently 34 Memorandums of Understanding have been 
approved including jurisdictions such as the USA, Canada, 
Brazil, India, Switzerland, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and Guernsey; negotiations are still open and further authorities 
should follow.
United Kingdom
UK regulatory reform
The UK’s regulatory structure changed from April 1, 2013. 
The Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’) was replaced by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) and the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (‘PRA’). The vast majority of asset 
managers are solely regulated by the FCA. 
Authorised contractual schemes
Her Majesty’s Treasury (‘HMT’) and the FCA are taking steps 
towards making the UK more competitive with popular fund 
domiciles such as Dublin and Luxembourg with their proposals 
to introduce authorised contractual schemes (‘ACS’) into the UK-
authorised fund model. 
ACS were first consulted on in January 2012 but have still not yet 
been finalised and launched. The finalisation is expected in the next few months. ACS will be tax transparent so that the schemes 
themselves pay no tax, only the underlying investors.  
HMT proposes two types of ACS: a co-ownership fund and  
a partnership fund. Investors in the co-ownership fund  
would have an undivided share of the scheme property (i.e.  
no investor has claim to particular assets). Co-ownership funds 
9 SEBI (Mutual Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 vide notification dated August 30, 2011
 Indian mutual fund industry   21would be similar in structure to authorised unit trusts, with 
the manager and the depositary entering into a trust deed. 
Partnership funds would have a general partner, a depositary 
(who will be a limited partner), and investors as limited partners. 
Marketing unregulated collective investment schemes 
(“UCIS”) to retail investors
The FCA recently published final rules on how UCIS can 
be marketed [not to be confused with “Undertakings for 
Collective Investment in Transferable Securities” (‘UCITS’)]. 
Up until now many UK distributors have marketed UCIS to retail investors in the UK. The FCA believes this has led to 
much consumer detriment because UCIS can be complex, 
invest in highly illiquid assets and be too risky for many  retail investors. 
Therefore, the FCA has chosen to ban advisers from 
distributing UCIS to ordinary retail investors – high net  worth individuals and sophisticated retail investors are e xempt from these new rules. 
“UCIS” are defined as being any funds not authorised in  
the UK. This can even have an impact on funds authorised in 
other countries (either inside or outside the EU) that are sold 
in the UK. Retail Distribution Review
The retail distribution review (“RDR”) was introduced in the UK 
on the 31 December 2012. RDR makes a number of changes to the UK’s distribution model, most notably banning commission 
for advisers from fund purchases  
and enforcing adviser charging instead, whereby individuals pay their advisers directly. Changes are expected to the UK 
platform market where many  
individuals buy their investments without advice. 
Financial Transaction Tax 
The European Commission issued a new draft Council Directive 
to implement an EU FTT in 11 countries. The Directive has a 
very broad scope and will have an impact on both EU and non-
EU financial institutions. The costs of the tax (coupled with the 
major operational changes that will be required to comply with the regime) will result in the EU FTT being a significant cost 
for financial institutions and their clients. The Directive could 
have an heavy impact on investment firms, UCITS and their management companies, AIFs and their managers, pension 
funds and their investment managers.

PwCThe United States of America
FATCA 
On 17 January 2013, the U.S. Department of the  
Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’)  
issued the final regulations on FATCA. The 544 page 
document requires non-US financial institutions with  
all the information needed in of terms information reporting, and withholding requirements for foreign 
financial institutions, other foreign entities, and U.S. 
withholding agents.
Asia
ASEAN Fund Passport
The ASEAN Disclosure Standards Scheme for multi-
jurisdiction offerings of equity and plain debt securities in ASEAN came into effect on 1- 2 April 2013. Malaysia, 
Singapore and Thailand are the first three nations who 
have entered into this Scheme which replaces an earlier scheme also known as the ASEAN and Plus Standards 
Scheme enacted in 2009. The implementation of this 
scheme is on an opt-in basis for ASEAN countries and only 
applies to offers of shares and plain debt securities. The 
following are excluded:
• Options, warrants or any other rights or interest in 
shares or debt securities; and
• Debt securities other than plain debt securities.
According to a statement from the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore, other ASEAN members will soon be adopting the scheme as well once they are ready.
Singapore
Enhanced regulatory regime for Fund Management Companies
The Monetary Authority of Singapore has issued the 
enhanced regulatory regime for fund management 
companies. This took effect from 7 August 2012, with 
certain transition provisions. It reinforces the professional duty of care that fund managers have to their investors 
and the important role that they must play in ensuring the 
sustainability of Singapore’s fund management industry, which is in turn critical to ensuring the long-term success 
or otherwise of their own businesses.Japan
Japanese Individual Savings Account 
Amongst all the measures taken by the Japanese authorities 
to incentivise households to invest their assets through the 
financial market, the Japanese Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’) scheme is expected to provide major opportunities 
to the asset management industry. The scheme has been 
inspired by the British model, and will be effective as from January 2014 for an initial ten year period. Dividends and 
capital gains on eligible investments placed under an ISA 
dedicated account will be exempted from tax.
United Arab Emirates
New regulations on investment funds
This new regulation covers the requirements for  
the establishment, operation and marketing of both domestic 

 Indian mutual fund industry   23
and foreign funds in the UAE. Regarding  
the distribution of a foreign fund in the UAE, the  
main changes are as follows:
• The distribution to the public and private placement of a 
foreign fund in the UAE is subject to the approval of the 
Securities and Commodities Authority (‘SCA’).
• A locally licensed placement agent must be appointed 
regardless of whether the foreign fund is publicly offered 
or promoted by way of private placement.
• A foreign fund can be marketed for public distribution in 
the UAE subject to certain conditions.
Another significant change is that the responsibility 
for licensing and marketing investment funds has been transferred from the UAE Central Bank to the SCA.Australia
Investment Manager Regime 
Global competition to attract mobile capital has driven tax 
concessions to lower taxes for foreign investors. The driver 
for the Investment Manager Regime (‘IMR’) was not so much about offering tax concessions but more to reduce tax 
uncertainty.
The aim of the IMR is to reduce the tax uncertainty that 
has been a disincentive for foreign funds seeking to invest in Australia and use Australian intermediaries. Following 
consultation with industry, on 4 April 2013, the treasury released an exposure draft for the final element of the IMR. 
Consultation with industry will continue and subsequently 
submissions can be made.
PwCSome key insights
Long-term performance 
To attract retail investors, a stable long-term 
performance by funds is most desirable. Asset 
management companies with a good track record over 
a period of time will be successful in drawing more funds from investors.
Uncertain market environment 
Going forward sluggish economic growth, high rate of inflation and slowdown of consumer demand is 
predicted in 2013. This has in turn adversely affected 
the investors’ ability to invest in financial markets. Investors are hesitant to approach capital markets and 
wary of risk in these challenging times. 
Attractiveness of income funds 
In a scenario where inflation is high and the RBI is 
lowering interest rates, investors are showing an 
interest in the fixed income market. Riding on the 
expectation that rates could be cut further in 2013,  the market looks promising for gilt funds, bond funds 
and income funds. 
Positioning mutual funds as a long term 
product
Mutual funds need to be positioned appropriately as a 
long term product in the investor’s mind. Distributors 
hence need to be incentivised adequately in order to 
sell the product correctly to investors. Our conversations 
with industry stakeholdersCommission structure
The clawback of commissions has incentivised 
some investors to shift to a trail model. National 
distributors on the other hand are hesitant, as 
they are always under pressure to meet short-term targets, in which case, earning an upfront 
commission works better for them.  
Additional total expense ratio (TER)
The directive on total expense ratio has given a lift 
to sales in B-15 cities. This has been a well-thought 
out move from the regulator’s side, and has helped 
to align the interests of various stakeholders in the industry to some extent.
Overseas mutual fund players  
evaluate acquisition opportunities  in Indian AMCs
With multiple positive regulatory changes  
taking place in the Indian market, overseas  
players are likely to gauge the opportunity of 
increasing penetration.  
Infrastructure debt funds 
There is huge opportunity in the category of infrastructure debt funds, given the heavy 
investments in infrastructure planned for India.  
This can prove to be a lucrative area for fund houses and launching new funds in this space could reap 
huge returns. 
Online technology 
Many fund houses face operational issues trying to 
incorporate technology into their processes. Also, 
continuous updating and migration pose a problem. 
Consolidation in the industry  
Increasing competition and cost burden on 
the market players are leading to a phase of 
consolidation in the industry. For smaller fund 
houses, sustainability and profitability is a key concern, stemming from high distribution and operational costs.  
 Indian mutual fund industry   25
Disciplined investing is the key – an efficient asset allocation will cushion 
against a downside in the market environment. 
PwCDistribution path 
Increase the distribution strength
Compared to the insurance sales force, the 
strength of the mutual fund network appears to 
be dismal. Quoting an industry CEO, “there are 
over 0.3 million insurance agents in India, while only 16,000 distributors for mutual funds.” This 
data implies that investors are likely to meet 
insurance agents much more frequently than mutual fund distributors and hence likely to park 
their surplus funds in insurance policies rather 
than mutual fund products.
Alternative distribution model
The mutual fund industry needs to explore an alternative mode of distribution, for expansion 
and growth.  The option of a tied distribution 
model could be explored, where the agent is tied to a particular institution. Although this model 
has worked in some countries it leans towards a 
closed architecture model, restricting the choice 
of the investor. The viability of its success in India 
needs to be measured. Fund houses can also look at the possibility of investing in an active sales 
force. The online channel of distribution also 
exists, although its full potential has not been exploited as yet.
Need to upgrade distribution 
networks
In the current scenario, the industry needs 
willingness from asset management companies 
to invest more in the distributor community. The 
smaller asset management companies due to lack of funds, find it more challenging to invest in the 
distribution channel. Training and educating the 
distributors are integral to increasing penetration Looking ahead: Our 
recommendationsof mutual fund products. 
New cadre of distributors to take 
the industry forward
The new cadre of distributors such as postal 
agents, retired officials and school teachers, 
etc will likely rake in inflows from smaller 
towns and cities. This cadre of distributors will be crucial in mobilising the savings of 
the smaller towns and directing these savings towards mutual fund investments.  
Product design
Mutual fund products need to be simplified 
if they have be sold to the masses through 
a public sector bank channel. The product 
needs to mimic a fixed deposit, and provide a predictable income. Also, these products need 
to be solution oriented. In the past, some fund 
houses launched similar schemes with minor differences.  The SEBI has directed a move 
towards a consolidation of schemes to make 
the process simpler for investors. If the right product or solution is not available to be sold 
to customers, it will be difficult to create a  
‘pull’ factor.  
Technology mix 
To overcome operational challenges, measures need to be taken to improve  
the existing infrastructure and to bring in 
more efficiency while increasing the scale of operations. This is not possible without 
the back-up of a good technology mix. It is 
also a key facilitator to break down under-penetrated markets.
The Indian mutual fund 
industry faces a lot of 
limitations with respect to 
product design and 
construction as compared to 
other markets.  
 Indian mutual fund industry   27Continuation of investor awareness 
initiatives 
National awareness campaigns for mutual funds continue 
to remain a focus area for fund houses and distributors. Distributors and IFAs are taking it upon themselves to 
educate the investor and make them aware of the benefits of 
investing in mutual funds. The AMCs are trying to think of innovative ways of reaching the investors in smaller towns 
and cities and mobilise their savings. Investors should be aware of the sectors in which they are 
investing and should have a clear outlook on the performance 
of their investments, with all the risks explained. Servicing the 
customers and guiding them to achieve their financial goals over 
a period of time will lead the industry towards sustainability and 
asset retention. 
The plan should be to ‘manage 
assets’ and not just ‘gather assets’.
PwCGrowth of systematic investment plans 
Fund managers need to enhance the growth of their  
systematic investment plan books. These plans have the 
capacity to deal with volatility over a long-time horizon  
 and generate steady returns. 
Focus on service initiatives 
Fund houses can create a differentiator for themselves by offering a premium service proposition. The initiative to 
increase distribution needs to be matched with service quality 
to investors and distributors alike or else increased penetration will not attain its full value. 
 Tax as an Enabler
The past period has witnessed adverse impacts arising out of uncertainty created on the tax front. While some of these 
have been rationalised by the authorities, such as the deferral 
of GAAR and the amendment on taxability of securitisation trusts, there are other areas which have created anxiety in the industry. The role of tax can be enhanced to be a growth enabler on various fronts - some examples include enabling 
the management of offshore funds from India, tax breaks on 
pension products and simplification of processes around the QFI regime. 
Multiple share class structure 
Some industry CEOs believe that a multiple share class structure can possibly be a viable model for the domestic 
mutual fund industry. In this kind of a structure, each share 
class can have its own expense ratio. 
Pension products 
Lastly, as we have recommended in our previous reports as well, we believe that allowing the fund houses to sell pension 
products will act as a huge catalyst for growth of the industry. 
This move will energise AMCs, distributors and investors alike, while contributing to the deepening of capital markets 
in India.   

 Indian mutual fund industry   29The outlook of the mutual fund industry is governed to a great extent by the economic situation in the country, which is 
predicted to kindle volatility due to the upcoming elections in 2014. The current economic scenario with sticky inflation 
and rising fuel prices is likely to adversely impact perceptions, resulting in depressed equity inflows into the market. 
Steps need to be taken to instil confidence in the minds of the investor and to encourage him to invest in mutual funds, even in times of uncertainty. 
We believe that the mutual fund industry manifests huge opportunity for growth and further penetration, and this can 
be achieved over time, with support from technology. The key lies in strengthening distribution networks and enhancing 
levels of investor education to increase presence in rural areas. In terms of opportunity, the infrastructure debt market 
has become very attractive, luring investors to invest in this space. Also, it is critical for the industry at this point to assess and capitalise the value that pension products bring to the growth of the mutual fund industry.   
Lastly, it may perhaps be useful if the mutual fund industry emulated some best practices from other industries and 
sectors to transition to the next level of growth.  Conclusion

PwCAbout CII
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an environment conducive to the development of India, 
partnering industry, Government, and civil society, through advisory and consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing a proactive role in India’s 
development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India’s premier business association has over 7100 members, from the private as 
well as public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 enterprises from around 257 national 
and regional sectoral industry bodies.
CII charts change by working closely with Government on policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, 
competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through a range of specialized services and strategic global linkages. It also 
provides a platform for consensus-building and networking on key issues.
Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry to identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships 
with civil society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skill development, empowerment of women, 
and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2013-14 is Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. 
Towards this, CII advocacy will accord top priority to stepping up the growth trajectory of the nation, while retaining a strong focus 
on accountability, transparency and measurement in the corporate and social eco-system, building a knowledge economy, and broad-basing development to help deliver the fruits of progress to all. 
With 63 offices, including 10 Centres of Excellence, in India, and 7 overseas offices in Australia, China, France, Singapore, South 
Africa, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international business community.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
Western Region 
105, Kakad Chambers 132 Dr Annie Besant Road Worli, Mumbai 400 018 Maharashtra, India Phone : +91 22 2493 1790 Fax : +91 22 2493 9463 / 2494 5831 Email : ciiwr@cii.in  
Website : www.cii.in
We would like to take this opportunity to thank all the team members for their contribution to the creation and 
finalisation of this report.Acknowledgements 
Arun Swaminathan 
Avinash Kalia 
Armin Choksey
Gautam Mehra 
Harsha Nallur Jay ShahJesal S LakdawalaManoj Kashyap 
Nehal D Sampat 
Pallavi Dhingra
Rajesh Nathwani 
Trisha Chatterji Vivek Prasad Vivek Belgavi About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more 
than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, 
Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.
pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwc
Contacts
Manoj K Kashyap
Leader  – Financial Services
Tel:  +91 22 66691401
Email : manoj.k.kashyap@in.pwc.comGautam MehraLeader – Asset Management
Tel: +91 22 66891155
Email : gautam.mehra@in.pwc.comAvinash Kalia
Associate Director
Tel:  +91 22 66691351
Email: avinash.kalia@in.pwc.com
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice 
before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company 
in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
PD 22 - June 2013 Indian mutual fund industry.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
