Title: Emerging Trends in Real Estate
Date Published: 2013-11-27 12:51:08-06:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_emerging-trends-in-real-estate.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

 
 
Emerging
            in Real Estate®Trends                         
2014Asia Pacific
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014
A publication from: 
2014EmergingTrends
 in Real Estate®
Asia Pacific
Contents
 1 Executive Summary
 2 Chapter 1  Navigating the Crowd
 4 Core: Crowded Out?
 7 Opportunistic: Moving Up the Risk Curve
 8 Secondary Markets Draw Attention
 9 Smaller Deals and Secondary Assets
 9 Distress: A False Dawn?
 11 Lower Your Returns, but Underwrite Compression
 11 Lengthening Investment Horizons
 12 Speculation Is Back
 13 Niche Markets Draw Crowds
 16 Emerging and Frontier Markets
 18 Regulations Chill Overheated Markets
 19 Chinese Oversupply: Fact or Fantasy?
 20 Tapering—What Does It Mean?
 22 Chapter 2  Real Estate Capital Flows
 24 Asian Capital Dominates
 25 Chinese Developers Join the Exodus
 25 Western Assets Targeted
 25 Institutional Money Pours Out
 27 Sovereign Money Pours In
 28 Tokyo Draws the Crowds
 28 Currency Risk Rises
 29 Fundraising Still Tough
 30 Bank Doors Wide Open
 31 Alternate Financing in China
 32 Capital Markets
 33 REITs: Still Room to Run?
 36 Chapter 3  Markets and Sectors to Watch
 38 Top Investment Cities
 47 Property Types in Perspective
 50 Interviewees
ii
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® 2014Editorial Leadership Team
PwC Advisers and Researchers 
 Australia  Adam Somerville
  Andrew Cloke
  Ashley Wood
  Bianca Blair
  Bianca Buckman
  Christian Holle
  Christina Sahyoun
  Ernie Chang
  James Dunning
  Jeff Wong-See
  Jen March
  Kirsten Arblaster
  Liz Stesel
  Marco Feltrin
  Ryan McMahon
  Scott Hadfield
  Tim Peel
  Tony Massaro
 China/Hong Kong Allan Zhang
  Andrew Li
  Kathleen Chen
  K.K. So
  Paul Walters
  Sally Sun
  Sam Crispin
 India Divya Kumar
  Gautam Mehra
 Japan  Eiji Tsukamoto
  Hideo Ohta
  Hiroshi Takagi
  Katsutoshi Kandori
  Raymond Kahn
  Robert Kissner-Ventimiglia
  Shinichi Okamoto
  Shunichiro Wakabayashi
  Soichiro Seriguchi
  Takehisa Hidai
  Takashi Yabutani
  Wataru Wada
  Yuji Sato
 South Korea Jin-Young Lee
   Taejin Park
 Luxembourg  Anna-Charlotta Thiele
  Julien Ghata
  Kees Hage
  Kenneth Iek
  Robert Castelein
 Malaysia  Jennifer Chang
 Philippines Malou P. Lim
 Singapore David Sandison
  Eng Beng Choo
  Jim Chua 
  Jiunn Siong Yong
  Justin Ong
  Oon Jin Yeoh 
  Pei Jun Tok
  Wan Lin Kong
  Wee Hwee Teo
  William Leow
 Taiwan  Richard Watanabe
  Shuo-Yen Lin
 Thailand  Paul Stitt
 United States Andrew Warren
 Vietnam David FitzgeraldEmerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014 Chairs
K.K. So, PwC
Kathleen Carey, Urban Land Institute
Principal Author
Colin Galloway, Urban Land Institute Consultant
Senior Advisers and Contributing Researchers
Stephen Blank, Urban Land Institute
Anita Kramer, Urban Land Institute
Senior Adviser
John Fitzgerald, Urban Land Institute
Contributing Researchers
Michael Owen, Urban Land Institute
Brandon Sedloff, Urban Land Institute
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® is a trademark of PwC and is regis -
tered in the United States and other countries. All rights reserved.
PwC helps organizations and individuals create the value they’re 
looking for. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 
184,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assur -
ance, tax, and advisory services. Tell us what matters to you and find 
out more by visiting us at www.pwc.com.
© 2013 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/
or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal 
entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
© November 2013 by PwC and the Urban Land Institute. 
Printed in Hong Kong. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be 
reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, 
including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage 
and retrieval system, without written permission of the publisher.
Recommended bibliographic listing:
PwC and the Urban Land Institute. Emerging Trends in Real Estate® 
Asia Pacific 2014.  Washington, D.C.: PwC and the Urban Land 
Institute, 2013.
ISBN: 978-0-87420-294-6ULI Editorial and Production Staff 
James A. Mulligan, Senior Editor
David James Rose, Managing Editor/Manuscript Editor
Betsy VanBuskirk, Creative Director
Anne Morgan, Cover Design
Deanna Pineda, Muse Advertising Design, Designer
Basil Hallberg, Senior Research Associate
Mark Federman, Project Assistant
1
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Executive Summary
Despite an uncertain economic backdrop, the fundamentals 
of real estate markets across Asia remained for the most part 
uncompromisingly strong throughout 2013, with cap rates 
tightly compressed and transaction volumes rising going into the 
fourth quarter of the year. This resilience came as a surprise to many 
investors interviewed for this year’s Emerging Trends in Real Estate 
Asia Pacific  report, given the specter of higher interest rates hanging 
over the market as the U.S. Federal Reserve considers when to begin 
tapering its longstanding policy of monetary easing.
In 2014, the problem going forward will be not only fierce compe -
tition for most conventional asset types, but that historically low yields 
are more likely to go down than up once base rates begin to tick up. 
As a result, investors will move up the risk curve in 2014 as they seek 
out yield, looking for value in niche areas instead of the mainstream. 
In particular, this might mean buying smaller-sized, or B-grade, 
buildings, or those in secondary markets. It might also mean buying 
or developing assets in the logistics, senior care, or self-storage 
sectors, or as a green-building play. Investors are also more likely 
to consider taking development risk. Large institutional players, for 
example, are now breaking with tradition by partnering with big devel -
opers in China to build core assets. 
Real estate capital flows in Asia remained robust in 2013, despite 
dislocations to regional portfolio flows caused by the threat of a 
tapering of U.S. economic stimulus. While bond and equity prices 
(including real estate investment trust [REIT] markets) have therefore 
dropped significantly from recent peaks, the physical market for real 
estate has so far been largely unaffected. 
One reason for this is the increase in sovereign wealth and 
institutional capital now aimed at Asian markets. Another is that 
Asian capital has become increasingly dominant in the post–global 
financial crisis environment, especially given the substantial volumes 
of capital being exported from individual Asian countries (in particular 
China, South Korea, and Singapore) into real estate assets across the 
region. This can be expected to continue in 2014. One of the biggest 
recipients of these (and also of global) flows is Japan, where the 
government has begun a massive monetary stimulus program aimed 
at jump-starting inflation in the economy. 
In addition, major real estate markets in the West are for the first 
time attracting large flows of Asian capital of all types—sovereign 
wealth, institutional, insurance company, and private money is now 
flooding westward in unprecedented volumes. These flows are set 
to continue going forward, despite increasing tightness in gateway 
markets.On the financial side, Asia’s banks remain as accommodating as 
ever—if not more so—in providing credit for real estate. Terms may 
have tightened very slightly in some markets, but in others, and espe -
cially Japan, they have loosened. Across Asia, loan-to-value ratios of 
60 to 65 percent are widely available (and even higher in Japan), while 
the cost of debt remains low. In China and India, however, bank credit 
remains tight. On the capital markets side, equities have been hit by 
the threat of the tapering, as foreign funds are repatriated, but the bond 
markets have seesawed throughout the year—the market window 
remained open at the end of 2013, although this may prove a last hur -
rah. REITs, too, have been hit by portfolio outflows, but they are mostly 
cashed up and will continue to be strong buyers in the coming year. 
In the Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific  investment 
prospects survey, Japan reemerged by a wide margin as the top 
investment destination for the first time since 2009, buoyed by a 
wave of optimism over the positive impact of Abenomics. In addi -
tion, the survey registered continuing interest carried over from last 
year in assets located in Asia’s emerging markets, including Jakarta 
and Manila in particular, despite problems of various kinds—from 
a lack of transparency to a lack of investable stock. In the survey’s 
sector-by-sector ratings, industrial/distribution remains the favored 
play—again by a wide margin—followed by the residential, office, 
and retail sectors.
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific   is a trends and forecast publica -
tion now in its eighth edition, and is one of the most highly regarded and 
widely read forecast reports in the real estate industry. Emerging Trends in 
Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014 , undertaken jointly by PwC and the Urban Land 
Institute, provides an outlook on real estate investment and development 
trends, real estate finance and capital markets, property sectors, metropolitan 
areas, and other real estate issues throughout the Asia Pacific region.
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014  reflects the views of 
250 individuals who completed surveys or were interviewed as a part 
of the research process for this report. The views expressed herein, 
including all comments appearing in quotes, are obtained exclusively 
from these surveys and interviews and do not express the opinions of 
either PwC or ULI. Interviewees and survey participants represent a wide 
range of industry experts, including investors, fund managers, develop -
ers, property companies, lenders, brokers, advisers, and consultants. ULI 
and PwC researchers personally interviewed 120 individuals, and survey 
responses were received from 130 individuals, whose company affilia -
tions are broken down as follows:Private property company, investor, or developer 31.7%
Institutional/equity investor or investment manager 27.3%
Real estate service firm 25.2%
Equity REIT or publicly listed property company 5.0%
Homebuilder or residential land developer 4.3%
Bank, lender, or securitized lender 4.3%
Other entity 2.2%
Throughout the publication, the views of interviewees and/or survey 
respondents have been presented as direct quotations from the partici -
pants without attribution to any particular participant. A list of the interview 
participants in this year’s study appears at the end of this report. To all 
who helped, the Urban Land Institute and PwC extend sincere thanks 
for sharing valuable time and expertise. Without the involvement of these 
many individuals, this report would not have been possible.Notice to Readers
Other 7.2%Asia Paciﬁc ﬁrm with a 
pan-Asia Paciﬁc strategy  34.5%
Global ﬁrm with 
a global strategy 
32.4%Asia Paciﬁc ﬁrm focused primarily on one country 25.9%Survey Responses by Geographic Scope of Firm
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.

3
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014When talk of tapering of the U.S. economic stimulus 
started to gain traction in global markets around the 
middle of 2013, the response from most Asian asset 
classes was dramatic. Equities markets tanked, bond yields 
spiked, and the region’s currencies—from the Indian rupee to 
the Indonesian rupiah—sold off relentlessly, as Western inves -
tors took flight at the prospect of interest rates moving back to 
historic norms.
As on previous occasions, however, Asia’s property 
markets barely flinched. Transactions and cap rates remained 
broadly unchanged in 2013 (and transactions, by some mea -sures, rose in the third quarter), while prices continued to drift 
upward as they have over the last five or so years—a trend 
reflected by responses to ULI’s 2014 profitability forecast, 
which indicates a slightly upward bias to previous sentiment. 
This refusal of the fundamentals to react to negative news 
has left many analysts scratching their heads. Said one, “The 
driver from occupational demand—whether residential or 
commercial—is clearly slowing because it’s driven by the 
[greater Asian] economy, which has been materially slower. 
And if the fundamentals weaken but pricing doesn’t move, to 
my mind the market’s gotten more expensive. But I don’t think chapter 1
Navigating  
 the Crowd
“If you can’t get returns on core deals, you have to think about going up the 
risk curve, whatever that may mean—so nowadays people are 
thinking about alternatives.”
EXHIBIT 1-1
Survey Responses by Country/Territory
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.
Indonesia
1.5%South Korea 2.3%India 6.9%
Hong Kong25.2%Other 4.6%
Philippines 3.8%
Malaysia 1.5%Australia 8.4%
Japan
15.3%China 11.5%
Singapore 
19.1%EXHIBIT 1-2
Real Estate Firm Profitability Trends
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2006–2014 surveys.
fairexcellent
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006good
4
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014people’s views on this have changed. I don’t think they’ve 
suddenly gone, ‘You know what, Asia is really expensive’—I’m 
just surprised more people haven’t made more noise about it.”
One reason may be that investors are now becoming 
accustomed to persistently high prices because “that’s the 
constant now.” Another may be that “people are pushing to 
put money into Asia Pacific just because they’ve not been 
investing over the last couple of years, so we’re probably mov -
ing into a new investment cycle.” Instead of obsessing over 
risk-adjusted returns, therefore, investors are finding new ways 
to make the numbers work. That means, said one institutional 
fund manager, “If you can’t get returns on core deals, you 
have to think about going up the risk curve, whatever that may 
mean—so nowadays people are thinking about alternatives.” 
Investing today therefore seems less dogmatic and more 
flexible, with fund managers looking to squeeze as much 
value out of deals as they can. As one investor said, “I’m not 
out there with a definite mission. We trawl through a lot of 
deals looking for ones that will make some money on the buy either because you’re buying it cheap, or in bulk, or in some 
kind of distress. Then, as well as buying it cheap, there should 
be something to add value to it—whether it’s development, or 
restructuring the tenants, or improving the planning position 
of the property. And hopefully, also buying into a market that 
has potential for growth. So you’ve got basically three legs 
that hopefully all stand up together. What we don’t like is just 
buying something that’s fairly vanilla and hoping the market 
goes up.”
Core: Crowded Out?
In recent years, one issue that has remained a constant is the 
acute shortage of investable stock. At the top end, more and 
more big institutional funds are crowding into major markets, 
mostly looking to buy core product. Many of these represent 
sovereign or pension fund assets that are overflowing from 
other countries in the region. South Korean institutions, for 
example, invested almost as much outside their country as Source: Real Capital Analytics, www.rcanalytics.com.
Note: Based on properties and portfolios valued at US$10 million or more.EXHIBIT 1-3
Asia Pacific Transaction Volume
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008US$0US$20US$40US$60US$80US$100US$120US$140US$160
China land
Volume, excluding
China landTotal (billions)
EXHIBIT 1-4
Firm Profitability Forecast for 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.Prospects for profitability in 2014 by percentage of respondents
5.4%
Excellent13.1%
Very good34.6%
Good20.8%
Modestly
good19.2%
Fair4.6%
Modestly
poor 2.3%
Poor
5
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdthey did at home in the first half of 2013, and are continuing 
to boost allocations to alternatives. An increasing number of 
Western and Middle Eastern sovereign funds also are now 
active in the market. At the same time, domestic buyers, 
in particular Asia’s resurgent real estate investment trusts 
(REITs), are competing actively in the core space, too. Given 
that the sovereign wealth funds and the REITs usually enjoy 
lower costs of capital and/or hurdle rates, the inevitable result 
is ongoing yield compression and ever-growing competition 
for assets. This may explain why sentiment for investment 
prospects in the core space declined significantly in this 
year’s Emerging Trends  survey results.Japan 
Relatively few of the many deals underway in Japan, for 
example, involve foreign funds, even though Tokyo is this 
year’s destination of choice for international investors. Said 
one consultant, “If you look at quarterly reports and bar charts 
about total [investment] volume and divide them into foreign 
and local investors, the portion of foreigners in Japan shrinks 
to a level I’ve never seen before.” And, as one locally based 
fund manager observed, “The domestic guys are still without 
a doubt the most active—public equity markets are up, the 
Japanese REITs are [trading] at a premium to NAV [net asset 
value]—in some cases a dramatic premium to NAV—they are 
flush with cash, and they’re out buying.”EXHIBIT 1-5
Top 30 Global Markets
Mid-2013  
rank Mid-2013 sales volume (US$ million)Year-over-year 
change 
New York City Metro 1 48.0%
Tokyo 2 7.0%
London Metro 3 1.0%
Los Angeles Metro 4 61.0%
Washington, D.C., Metro 5 90.0%
San Francisco Metro 6 -1.0%
Hong Kong 7 -14.0%
Paris 8 -33.0%
Singapore 9 64.0%
Sydney 10 45.0%
Dallas 11 24.0%
Atlanta 12 78.0%
Houston 13 35.0%
Toronto 14 -8.0%
Boston 15 36.0%
Moscow 16 103.0%
Chicago 17 -24.0%
Osaka 18 107.0%
Seoul 19 30.0%
South Florida 20 -11.0%
Seattle 21 -5.0%
Berlin-Brandenburg 22 15.0%
Stockholm 23 -30.0%
Rhine-Ruhr 24 128.0%
Shanghai 25 -21.0%
Frankfurt/Rhine-Main 26 58.0%
Melbourne 27 33.0%
Munich 28 87.0%
Phoenix 29 -8.0%
Brisbane 30 19.0%
Source: Real Capital Analytics, www.rcanalytics.com, June 2013.
Note: Property types included are office, industrial, retail, apartment, and hotel. Based on 
properties and portfolios valued at US$10 million or more.0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 19,161
 15,372 13,953 11,849
 10,672
 8,154 7,065 5,965 4,707 4,577
 4,518
 4,375
 4,347
 4,172 4,037 3,935 3,863 3,296 3,176 3,163 3,130 3,106
 2,793
 2,767 2,541 2,493 2,4892,4252,3702,359
6
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014South Korea
In South Korea, the same story has been in place for years. 
While the market for commercial property is both large and 
liquid, getting a foot in the door is difficult unless investors 
have a personal connection with a local player. According to 
one fund manager: “The issue is there’s so much domestic 
capital from life insurance companies and pension funds. 
Cap rates have compressed to 5 percent and there’s no rental 
growth, so it’s all basically just cap rate compression and low 
interest rates. You can borrow at 4 percent, or even sub–4 
percent, in Korea, but there aren’t many opportunities for 
investors like us because on the core side you’re competing 
head to head with the locals.” 
Hong Kong, Singapore, and China
A similar scenario exists in Hong Kong, where so little core prod -
uct transacts that “people quite often base themselves [here] but 
just ignore it when it comes to looking for investments.” 
In Singapore, the fundamentals may have hit bottom 
after several years of weakness, and in the short term should 
find support from a relatively modest pipeline of supply. 
Statistically, investment in core property rebounded in 2013, 
and some see it now at the bottom of the cycle. One reason 
for this is that “Singapore is increasingly seen as a more 
attractive financial center than Sydney because of its loca -
tion.” Said one fund manager, “I think demand is returning; 
there’s not much supply, rents are firm. It’s an increasingly popular place for mainlanders to deploy capital; it’s an easier 
place for Western funds to deploy than many other parts 
of Asia; and it’s safer.” Another fund manager commented, 
“I think the market has underestimated the ongoing latent 
demand of Singapore—each percent change in GDP [gross 
domestic product] here translates into a lot more demand for 
commercial space than it does in other markets just given the 
size of Singapore.”
On the other hand, most of the recent action has been 
driven by left-pocket/right-pocket REIT flotations and govern -
ment land sales, while cap rates for high-quality buildings 
are now in the 3 to 4 percent range, pricing many investors 
out of the market. Moreover, according to one fund manager, 
Singapore remains exposed to both potential interest rate 
hikes and the possibility that the government may decide to 
cut the price of land, which has varied widely over the years. 
As he put it, “Land fluctuates anywhere from a low of about 
S$270 to a high [most recently] of around S$1,600, and it’s 
been doing that since the mid-1990s. I’ll bet my entire incen -
tive fee that sometime in the next year, land will trade for under 
S$1,000 per [square] foot—it’s all a timing game.”
In China, not only are good-quality, well-leased assets 
hard to come by, they also are prohibitively expensive. Yields 
of around 6 to 7 percent in 2006 have come down to just 2 
to 3 percent today in terms of true net rates. In addition, with 
onshore borrowing costs of 6.5 to 7.5 percent, core buyers 
face “a negative carry for a number of years, at least until 
you’ve done a turn or two of the rental.” As a result, most 
foreign investors are shying away from core assets in China. 
Not all are, however. A significant minority of foreign funds 
is today willing to compete with domestic buyers to pick up 
core assets in tier-one cities (especially Shanghai) even at 
these yields. While some of this can be seen as speculative, 
it may also reflect, as one investor noted, “a secular evolution Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 1-7
Asia Pacific Investors’ Regional Allocation 
Percentages
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%OtherLatin AmericaEuropeUnited States/CanadaAsia PaciﬁcIn ﬁve years2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 1-6
Prospects by Investment Category/Strategy  
for 2014
20132014
Distressed debtDistressed propertiesCore investmentsOpportunistic
investmentsDevelopmentCore-plus
investmentsValue-added
investments
1
Abysmal5
Fair9
Excellent5.72
5.66
5.63
5.605.555.125.035.88
5.905.565.725.75
5.38
5.23
7
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdin the markets here. When you look at Shanghai and see core 
capital—large institutional players from North America, for 
example—looking to invest in a market that provides bondlike 
returns where five years ago, nobody would have done a deal 
at less than 25 percent as an international investor, it’s a fas -
cinating turn of events.” The reason? “When you’re looking to 
match the liability life span some of these pension funds have, 
they need to be here, because this is one of the only engines 
of growth that will sustain itself over that 20- to 30-year period.”
Australia
The dominance of regional institutional money and the general 
lack of available product can sometimes lead to the impres -
sion—as far as foreign investors are concerned—that Asian 
core no longer exists as an asset class. Said one manager 
at a large Western institutional fund, “To be honest, the only 
market where you can really buy a genuine core product in 
Asia is probably Australia. I’m hesitating to say Japan, maybe, 
but the market there just shows quite different characteristics. 
It’s a core market for a lot of local money, but not so much [for] 
the foreigner. I think by nature the rest of the region is going to 
be value-add or development or opportunistic.” 
This probably explains Australia’s continuing popularity 
among global core investors. As one regional consultant put 
it, “It’s interesting that over the last few quarters net disinvest -
ment [of non-Asian investors] has started to ease and came 
back pretty much to parity, but if we split it down further, what 
those international global investors are doing is really an 
Australian story. If you look over about the last two-and-a-half 
years, you see a steady trend upward, and then over the last 
12 months, the uptake in Australia has been very significant.” 
According to data providers Real Capital Analytics (RCA), 
transactions in Australia registered US$14.4 billion in the first half of 2013, up 30 percent year on year. This surge in invest -
ment accounts for the apparent rise in Asian cap rates during 
the first half, as depicted in Exhibit 1-8. In fact, yields in Asia 
as a whole have not risen—the spike simply reflects increased 
transactions in Australia, where average cap rates of 7 to 8 
percent remain significantly higher than those elsewhere in 
the region. 
Opportunities to invest in core seem to be thinning out in 
Australia, though, partly because the existing pool of assets is 
being depleted and partly because local institutions—includ -
ing wholesale funds and Australia’s cash-rich superannuation 
funds—are competing more actively in the market and 
devouring prime assets “like raw meat.” As one investor com -
mented, “The stock market has obviously performed pretty 
well, so a lot more of the local institutions have money now, 
which they didn’t two, three, four years ago. And there’s more 
foreign money that has come in as well, so it’s become more 
competitive.” As a result, said one interviewee, “The window is 
closing.” The sheer weight of foreign capital aimed at Australia 
means that cap rates may come under pressure in the 
future, although foreign fund managers seemed more bullish 
about this prospect than their local peers. As one observed, 
“Foreign funds are still doing deals there because they have 
too much capital and they have to deploy it.” 
Opportunistic: Moving Up the 
Risk Curve
The chronic shortage of core product in Asia probably 
explains why a greater percentage of the capital currently 
being raised by funds is earmarked for opportunistic pur -
poses. But even then, deals featuring the standard 20 
percent–plus returns remain thin on the ground for the same EXHIBIT 1-9
Australian Superannuation Fund Cash Inflows
Source: Australia Bureau of Statistics.
* Reflects government concessional contributions.A$0A$10,000A$20,000A$30,000A$40,000A$50,000Total (millions)
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007* 2006 2005 2004 2003EXHIBIT 1-8
Asia Pacific Yield
Source: Real Capital Analytics, www.rcanalytics.com.
Note: Based on properties and portfolios valued at US$10 million or more.5%6%7%8%
Retail yieldOfﬁce yield
2013
Q12012
Q12011
Q12010
Q12009
Q12008
Q12007
Q1
8
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014reasons as in the past: poor risk-adjusted returns, com -
pressed cap rates, and lack of conditions that serve to create 
financial pressure leading to distress. Lower levels of leverage 
that became the norm after the global financial crisis have 
not helped the opportunistic cause either. As one investor 
in Japan noted, “For guys trying to do that strategy, it’s very 
competitive and there are not a lot of deals—the opportunistic 
funds are clearly having trouble in trying to put money out.” In 
Australia, the same applied: “There’s always something out 
there, but it’s just harder to crack the code—I think the deal 
flow will thin out a bit.” 
In China, meanwhile, where risk tends to push most invest -
ments into or toward opportunistic territory no matter what 
yields might suggest, investor attitudes reflect the difficulty of 
getting to grips with an extraordinarily complex and diverse 
market. As one investor put it: “It’s terrifying in so many ways. 
And the [deal] structuring is just a pain—in a market where 
there is good local liquidity, you’re accepting 10 to 20 percent 
lower returns than a local if you’re a foreigner for the same 
price because of the tax burden on your structure. So it is a 
very difficult market, but there are funds that are there, they’ve 
done it, they have good people on the ground, they know how 
the system works. It’s just about finding the right product with 
the right partner.” 
What to do? In previous years, investors might have opted 
simply not to buy. But with cap rate compression now appar -
ently baked in, the only alternative is to adapt. Investors are 
therefore looking at a range of approaches to get access to 
the market. Secondary Markets Draw 
Attention
One strategy is to migrate toward secondary markets. In 
Japan, offshore investors who have traditionally been reluctant 
to buy outside Tokyo’s central wards are now willing to venture 
further afield, including into suburban areas. As one fund 
manager said, “Submarkets really matter—you need to find a 
submarket where you can have very low vacancy in an asset 
with a real supply constraint.” 
Secondary Japanese cities have also reemerged as 
popular destinations. Said one investor, “Generally, in Japan 
you have to be careful when you go into the regions, but there 
are cities—Osaka now, Fukuoka, and even Sapporo—where 
we’ve done deals that actually have a fair amount of economic 
heft to them in a reasonably deep market. Those are ones 
where you can very much calibrate the cap rates you get to 
[those in] Tokyo—you just look at the spread between the two.”
In Australia, a trend toward suburban office purchases fea -
tured strongly. According to one interviewee, “Everyone feels 
core CBD [central business district] office was pretty tight 
already, so suburban office was something they’d consider 
because it hasn’t tightened as much.” 
This is a strong theme in China, too. Although debate 
continues about the relative appeal of secondary and tertiary 
cities given problems with oversupply, in the first tier there has 
been a drift toward investment in commercial projects located 
in suburban districts, driven partly by high rents and partly by 
improving inner-city transportation networks. Said one fund 
manager active in China, “What we’re seeing is that anything EXHIBIT 1-10
Current Fund Raising, by Style and Target Region
Source: DTZ Insight, Great Wall of Money , October 2013.0%20%40%60%80%100%
Unknown
Mix
Core
Value-added
Opportunistic
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
EMEA Americas Asia Paciﬁc Global
9
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdthat’s pretty central in Shanghai is exorbitantly expensive, and 
so one theme going forward will be the suburbanization of 
these tier-one cities where you’re going in on a more afford -
able basis—that’s a key trend and that’s where you’re seeing 
some interesting opportunities.” This idea applies equally to 
satellite areas. In Shanghai, for example, a new commercial 
district is springing up in Hongqiao near the old city airport 
and Shanghai’s new high-speed rail interchange, provid -
ing connectivity both nationally and regionally to cities in the 
Yangtze River Delta. 
Smaller Deals and Secondary 
Assets 
Another way to game the market is to target multiple smaller 
deals instead of single large ones. As one opportunistic inves -
tor said in reference to Australia, “You want to get out ahead 
of the market on buying second-tier assets in good markets 
or good assets in second-tier markets, although you have 
to be very careful [buying] secondary assets in secondary 
markets. Because when the debt and equity markets come 
back it gets very competitive for the good stuff, and people 
get squeezed out into the regions—squeezed out in terms of 
asset quality—and that stuff can really come roaring back. I’d 
even characterize that as what’s happening right now for the 
smaller ticket–sized assets, and I think it’s just a matter of time 
before the bigger assets start to see that lift also.”
In Australia, smaller (i.e., sub–US$100 million or sub–
US$50 million) assets have been subject to significant cap 
rate compression over the last year “because individual-inves -
tor buyers, either high-net-worth individuals or syndicators, 
are now back in force.” The “sweet spot,” however, accord -
ing to one fund manager, is in hundred-million-dollar-plus 
B-grade assets. “These are the ones where it’s still a less 
efficient market, and if I were an institution that’s what I would 
want to buy,” he commented. “If you can find a stable, cash-
flowing B-plus building that’s pretty well located, but maybe 
not central Sydney or Melbourne, you’re going to get a pretty 
attractive cap rate. It’s not going to be gangbusters anytime 
soon, but a lot of it depends on what you think about the 
Australian economy.” 
Another fund manager commented, “The spread between 
risk-free money and yield in grade-B assets is probably at a 
20-year historic high in Australia. A lot of people don’t get that, 
bizarrely, but I think cap rates are coming in gradually and we 
will sell into that over time.”
Japan is another prime example. Local institutions willing 
to accept a lower yield have long cornered the market for 
Tokyo’s stock of large, core buildings. But with a little imagina -
tion, investors can still access or even create less-high-profile 
core products. Some of the most active private equity players 
in Japan, therefore, are opting to buy multiple smaller assets 
(averaging a few tens of millions of U.S. dollars each), often 
out on the fringes of the market. Repositioning the right type of building in the right location can also allow buyers to “engi -
neer” new core assets.
In Hong Kong, tight supply in the traditional CBD on 
Hong Kong Island (expected to fall some 30 percent short of 
demand by 2020, according to brokers CBRE) has led to the 
creation of a second business district in Kowloon East, which 
has thrived despite the skeptics. Said one interviewee, “There 
were some sniggers when the government launched it as 
CBD2, but the pace is picking up, and over a five-to-ten-year 
plan it’s going to be an important area.” The flip side is that, 
as ever in Hong Kong, cap rate compression suggests the 
moment may already have passed. Although the impact of 
government cooling measures has moved cap rates in East 
Kowloon out by about 100 basis points, many properties are 
still yielding only about 3 percent—pretty meager even by 
Asian standards. 
Distress: A False Dawn?
For years, opportunistic investors have been awaiting the 
emergence of distress in a number of markets across Asia. 
By and large, though, they have waited in vain. Be it Japan’s 
commercial mortgage–based securities (CMBS) tail, cash-
starved Chinese developers, or failed REITs, the reality has 
generally fallen short of expectations. To some extent, this 
reflects a cultural reluctance to allow compromised deals 
to be recycled by the market as they are in the West. Failed 
projects tend to be instead resolved via backdoor agreements 
with friendly entities (often bigger players) or held in limbo 
in the hope that market conditions will eventually reverse. In 
addition, said one fund manager, “There’s not been a lot of 
corporate distress, and because there hasn’t been a lot of 
building, occupancy levels are still sufficient to cover any debt 
that’s on these properties, so there are no distress situations, 
there are no foreclosures going on.”
Still, possibilities exist. Distress in Asia just tends to be 
harder to source, smaller in scale, and often dressed up dif -
ferently than investors expect. Said one fund manager, “It’s 
so granular in terms of some of the opportunities that come 
up. There are things out there, but it’s difficult to find a blanket 
theme at the moment. You just need to be active in your local 
market.” Or, as another investor said, “You just stay around the 
hoop, then something will come out.” The comments of one 
fund manager about distress in Australia are probably just as 
applicable elsewhere: “Commerce begets commerce—the 
more deals you do on the distress side, the more people come 
to you and say, ‘We’re finally looking to move these bad posi -
tions.’ So the big portfolio plays may now be much harder to 
come by, but we continue to see a lot of flow deals on the dis -
tress or value side, often single assets that are undermanaged 
or underleased. It’s not like you’re buying them at absolute bar -
gain basement, but you’re getting them at a devalued price.” 
What this implies is that distress in the Asian context does 
not necessarily involve picking over bankrupt projects. As one 
10
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014investor said in reference to China and India, “Usually, what 
distress means is not so much a bank selling NPLs [nonper -
forming loans], but more a developer in a liquidity squeeze. 
So you’re not going to buy an asset screamingly cheap, but 
you’re going to be able to negotiate good-to-acceptable terms 
on some sort of structured financing or recapitalization.”
Among particular types of opportunities, residential land 
for mass-planned projects in Australia, small cash-challenged 
developers in China (senior-secured deals at 15 to 25 percent 
internal rates of return [IRRs]), small overseas developers of 
luxury residential properties in Singapore, and even bank -
rupted development deals in Vietnam were all mentioned by 
interviewees as offering potential for distress in 2014. 
India: Progress or Paralysis? 
The market most likely to yield potential distress (as defined 
above), however, is India, where “a lot of arm-waving is going 
on” after a string of recent calamities. Government policy 
conflicts, slowing economic growth, falling foreign direct 
investment (FDI), and rising inflation and borrowing costs have 
had a significant impact on the domestic real estate sector, 
with many developers now suffering serious funding gaps. 
The problems have been compounded by a 20 percent col -
lapse in the value of the rupee in mid-2013 (since retraced by 
about 5 percent).
A pervasive sense of nervousness in India has led the 
business sector to hoard its cash. In addition, according to 
one Indian consultant, local banks are refusing to lend for 
speculative commercial developments (with some exceptions, 
such as IT parks) and otherwise charge up to 15 percent for 
financing. The resulting funding gap has created demand 
from developers for senior-secured debt, the play currently 
favored by India’s nonbanking financial companies (NBFCs), 
the market’s dominant domestic financiers. Although senior-  
secured IRRs had come down to around 18 percent in mid-  
2013, foreign investors have now raised their asking price to 
20 to 23 percent after the currency collapse. 
The question with India is the extent to which these 
opportunities will be attractive to a somewhat cynical foreign 
investment community. Despite its undoubted potential, 
the Indian market is plagued by a combination of political, 
regulatory, currency, and market risk that has prompted many 
foreign funds to remain on the sidelines for several years. 
Governance issues, in particular, loom large. As one inter -
viewee observed, “The international investor community has 
been burned in the past because of [policy mandates] that 
have been taken for granted, which, when the fine print came 
out, turned out to be a mirage.” 
As a result, said one foreign fund manager, “The opportu -
nity is getting bigger for the domestic players, because with 
this volatility usually comes distress. But for the international 
players, it’s probably gotten harder. You have to have a more 
flexible mind-set to get comfortable with things that aren’t per -
fect on the underwriting, taking that leap of faith as opposed Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific surveys.
Note: Data for 2013 and 2014 are from the Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey; 
data for 2012 are from the Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2013  survey.EXHIBIT 1-11
Levels of Impact of Global Financial Distress
1
Hardly5
Limited9
SevereChinaTaiwanJapanSouth KoreaMalaysiaThailandPhillippinesAustraliaSingaporeVietnamHong KongIndonesiaIndia
201220132014 6.17
6.085.995.995.915.825.80
5.72
5.725.595.585.585.566.28
6.05
6.055.996.045.835.77
5.76
5.645.665.505.535.585.68
N.A.
5.84
5.785.765.44N.A.
N.A.
N.A.5.615.755.485.64
11
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdto cutting corners, or deluding yourself. And I think for interna -
tional players who have been leery especially in the last five 
years, the last six months have made that tougher.” 
Although in general interviewees displayed a degree of 
negativity toward the Indian market, there was also a sense 
that upcoming elections may mark the bottom of the cycle, with 
positive signs emerging on a variety of fronts. In particular:
■■Domestic real estate funds and NBFCs have recently 
(and somewhat unexpectedly) managed to raise substan -
tial amounts of new capital from local investors, possibly as 
a result of a lack of appetite, to invest abroad following the 
decline of the rupee.
■■The government has recently proposed new guidelines 
that if implemented will provide for the establishment of a 
domestic REIT industry in the near future. This provides a 
potential exit for foreign investors (an issue nominated as his 
“main concern” by one interviewee). That apart, if the Indian 
government allows FDI in REITs, it will also offer a glimmer of 
hope for a shift to a more open environment generally for FDI 
flows: “In principle, the fact that you’re going to allow REITs to 
invest in smaller properties, income-producing assets, means 
that all the guidelines India has that restrict foreign capital 
flows into income-producing assets would be vulnerable, 
because not only would foreign investors then be able to put 
money into those assets, the quantum they could place would 
be as low as 200,000 rupees [about US$3,200].”
■■In addition, several other land investment–oriented bills 
or reforms are in the pipeline or have recently been passed. 
There is even talk of reforms to the FDI real estate guide -
lines. India has experienced false dawns on the regulatory 
front before, but there seems to be a greater recognition 
now that the former protective and dysfunctional regime was 
ultimately counterproductive. As one India-based consultant 
commented, “There’s a lot of political motivation, which is 
essentially the reason I think some of these things have been 
rolled out—the bigger picture is that India seems keen on 
creating a more regulated, more transparent, and more forth -
coming regulatory framework for attracting investment both 
from foreign and Indian sources into real estate assets.” 
Lower Your Returns, but 
Underwrite Compression
If opportunistic returns of 20 percent–plus are considered 
unattainable, one obvious solution is to lower the targeted 
return and make up the difference through increased 
capital values. And that is what some buyers are doing. As 
one Japanese-based investor said, “The straight distress, 
opportunistic deals—they’re just not here. So now, for some of 
these guys, 15 [percent] is considered the new 20.” Investors 
will take what may actually be a core-plus deal, increase the 
leverage, make the asset more efficient, and hope that cap 
rates compress. While that compression may not officially be 
part of the calculation, there is certainly an expectation of it underlying the logic of the purchase. 
As one fund manager described it, “It’s really an engineer -
ing-type play with the hope that something is going to go up 
in the future. The idea, basically, is to get some money out, 
hope the market recovers, and worst case they’ll end up with 
a good single-digit return, which isn’t a bad thing.” Another 
investor commented, “So you buy at a 7, but you think you can 
move it today at a 6.25, and you think ultimately you can move 
it at a 5.5. So yes, that is compression from 7 to 5.5, but it’s not 
like you’re penciling in 150 basis points of cap rate compres -
sion. It’s just that it’s very believable.”
Although plenty of investors in the Japanese B-grade 
office space are playing this strategy, a significant minority 
voiced skepticism. While on paper, for example, office vacan -
cies have declined and rents have shown signs of stabilizing, 
some question whether this is a result of discounts and incen -
tives offered by landlords. “It’s been catching a falling knife for 
three years,” said one. Another said that “office is still ques -
tionable because of the supply [pipeline].” 
Apart from Japan, the cap rate compression thesis seems 
strongest in two other markets: India, where real estate funda -
mentals remain fairly resilient and there is an expectation that 
the government over the medium term will be able to over -
come a wave of negativity over the economy; and Australia, 
which has seen two base-rate cuts in 2013 that have reduced 
the risk-free (i.e., sovereign bond) rate and widened yield 
spreads on core assets to around 400 basis points. 
Lengthening Investment Horizons
Another way in which the trend toward lower opportunistic 
returns has been expressed is in opting for longer investment 
windows. One interviewee spoke of buying high-quality assets 
in first-tier Chinese or Indian cities with relatively low leverage 
(say, 35 to 40 percent instead of 50 to 60 percent) in order to 
protect the deal from market fluctuations. “That [translates] 
to a 17 and it’s not one you’re going to flip, it’s really geared 
more to holding ten to 12 years. So you end up getting a 15 
to 17 percent IRR, but at a very attractive multiple. I’d say that 
does characterize the type of opportunistic investor that’s in 
the ‘16-to-17-is-the-new-20-and-we’re-playing-for-multiple’ 
category.” 
That said, this “lower return/higher multiple” approach is 
not necessarily widespread, not least because many fund 
managers are confident they can still deliver the higher return. 
“For us, 20 is the new 20,” as one investor put it. “I’d say for 
some styles of investing that probably is the reality, and it’s 
much more the go-big portfolio-building strategy. Ours is 
more granular and we think we can get the 20 percent.”
Longer holding periods are also a reflection of maturing 
investment strategies in markets that traditionally have been 
focused on flipping assets for a fast buck, or where develop -
ers have had little choice but to turn their inventory as soon 
as possible because they otherwise lacked capital to invest 
12
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014in their next deal. As one foreign developer active in China 
said, “There are [local] developers today who are becoming 
what they call ‘huggers’—so instead of selling strata, they 
now want to hold buildings for a longer period and probably 
inject into some kind of equity, or inject it into a potential REIT 
in the future. So you could see some of these developers 
beginning to hug on to their group commercial buildings—it 
is beginning now.”
Speculation Is Back 
The type of highly structured deal so much the hallmark of 
the days before the global financial crisis might now seem a 
thing of the past, but as pressure mounts on investors in some 
markets both to source deals and to make the numbers add 
up, a sense of déjà vu is creeping in. Japan in particular is the 
target of a large volume of recently raised foreign capital that 
must now compete against cashed-up local investors with 
very low expectations on returns. As one fund manager said, 
“There’s too much money, too much liquidity in certain mar -
kets, so you have overweight capital that can’t find deals. Yet, 
foreign funds still place money simply because they have to 
deploy it—Abenomics has renewed that speculator mentality.”
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratios have inched up across Asia 
over the last year. They now commonly register 60 to 65 per-
cent across Asian markets and can reach 80 to 85 percent 
in Japan, depending on ticket size and asset type. In fact, a 
few deals in Japan have been struck in 2013 with leverage as 
high as 90 percent–plus. As one investor said, “Some of them 
have been generated by European banks unwilling or unable 
to take writedowns on deals they did back in 2006–2007. 
So they bring in a new sponsor and restructure so they don’t 
have to take a writedown. They basically give the equity guys 
an option, effectively 5 to 10 percent, in the hope the market recovers.” While these deals have made sellers “look like 
heroes for holding on,” the issue for buyers is not only that 
they are highly levered, but also that they are conceived on a 
basis that implies significant cap rate compression in order to 
reach the projected opportunistic return. As one investor put 
it, “Basically, it’s just a punt.” 
To be fair, these highly structured, seller-financed deals 
are exceptional. As one fund manager observed, “The taste 
for most private equity players to do that with big positions is, 
perhaps, not a thing of the past, but there’s much less appe -
tite for it.” Still, the fact they are happening at all has raised 
eyebrows. One fund manager commenting about Tokyo said, 
“I heard someone saying they’d bought a residential portfolio 
leveraged to 85, and with yield and cost of debt where [they 
are], it’s clearly irresistible for some opportunistic funds just 
to get those returns through leverage—I suspect that will 
continue, but it’s a risky strategy.”
In China, speculative plays based on the assumption of 
ongoing price increases have long been common among 
local buyers, and are now increasingly so among foreigners, 
too. As one foreign investor tells it, “Some of the trades in 
Shanghai and Beijing are fully let office buildings trading at 2 
percent net effective yields, although they say 4 to 5 percent 
gross. If those are such great deals, and now the market has 
opened up for the insurance companies and all they have to 
do is achieve 3 to 5 percent yield, why would core investors in 
China be buying these assets? We were shown a building last 
year, and I had to laugh at the broker. I said, ‘Wait a minute, it 
only nets me 1.5 percent yield.’ And he said, ‘But this isn’t a 
yield play.’ I said: ‘But it’s a stabilized asset.’ ‘Yes, but you’re 
going to be able to flip it for twice what you bought it for.’ And 
sure enough, it sold to a foreign fund.” 
EXHIBIT 1-12
Transaction Volume of Industrial Properties in Asia Pacific Markets, by Biannual Total
Source: CBRE Research.
Investment volume ( millions)
US$0US$1,000US$2,000US$3,000US$4,000US$5,000US$6,000US$7 ,000US$8,000
1H 2013 2H 2012 1H 2012 2H 2011 1H 2011 2H 2010 1H 2010 2H 2009 1H 2009
13
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the CrowdNiche Markets Draw Crowds
The same reasoning that has led to a drift toward secondary 
locations applies equally to secondary sectors, in particular 
for opportunistic players. Niche sectors not only produce 
higher returns, but also tend to require a certain degree of 
specialization, which, in turn, winnows out the investors willing 
or qualified to compete. As a result, interviewees this year 
regularly cited their interest in various types of niche play, in 
particular in Japan, where competition for assets is intense 
and where alternatives are especially attractive: “Japanese 
domestic capital is very risk-averse, and if we can play in 
some of those areas where they don’t feel comfortable, that 
can offer some attractive opportunities.” 
Logistics 
The industrial/distribution sector featured strongly in last 
year’s Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific  report. 
Its popularity has continued into 2014, with the sector again 
registering the strongest sentiment among the various invest -
ment categories in survey responses. The bullish sentiment 
is confirmed by recent statistics, with transactions of US$3.1 
billion in Asian industrial and logistics assets reported in the 
third quarter of 2013, according to CBRE, up 75 percent year 
on year. Existing logistics facilities throughout Asia are, for 
the most part, fairly basic in nature and in short supply. As a 
result, and as distribution strategies of both international and 
domestic manufacturers become more sophisticated, there is 
growing demand for facilities able to offer more complex ser -
vices and that cater to the needs of third-party logistics (3PL) providers, who have now become the major driver of demand 
for new logistics facilities regionally. In addition, as internet 
sales in the region take off (particularly in China), demand 
is growing for new inward-focused infrastructure to serve 
domestic consumer demand, as opposed to first-generation 
facilities that were oriented toward exporting from Asian ports 
to the developed world. As a result, logistics has become one 
of the most sought-after sectors for real estate investors in all 
markets as they continue to seek higher yields. 
Investors must consider various issues, however. First, 
there is “a huge amount of competition” because so many 
people are eyeing the same play and because construction 
costs are low. This also means that placing large amounts 
of money can be problematic. Second, because “it can take 
you a year-and-a-half to tie down the signing and get all the 
permitting in place,” the ideal model is to line up tenants 
beforehand. For this reason, logistics is often the preserve of 
larger, specialist players that can presell facilities to their exist -
ing clients. “Otherwise you buy it, build it, and it just sits there.” 
Referring to China, one investor said, “Development yields 
for logistics are much higher than [those for] other property 
sectors within a much shorter development cycle—call it 18 
months. So, from a risk-adjusted standpoint, it offers a pretty 
compelling proposition: mid-to-high teens over an eight-to-ten-
year period. Development yields are 8.75 to 9 percent, at true 
NOI [net operating income]. Those other sectors have more 
potential for rental growth, but logistics has good rental growth, 
too—we’ve seen 4 to 5 percent rental bumps each year.”
In Australia, yields for logistics assets averaged 8.6 per -
cent in the year to July 2013, according to data providers IPD. 
In other markets, they are lower. Japan, for example, has seen 
a surge in activity in the sector as new infrastructure is built in 
the wake of the Tohoku earthquake, and as the manufacturing 
sector shifts more toward an international 3PL model, “Cap 
rates are probably a 5 for Class-A stuff—and now you’re even 
seeing some assets trade sub-5.” 
Several interviewees also noted increased activity in the 
logistics sector in South Korea, although again the market is 
hard to penetrate. “Foreign capital is checking out logistics 
opportunities, but because logistics is owned and controlled 
by the big corporations, they don’t use 3PLs,” said one South 
Korea–based fund manager. “There are a few logistics cen -
ters, but they’re not conveniently located—they’re scattered 
around, so when you try to divest, the question is: how are you 
going to exit if there’s no tenant backing you up, because it’s 
difficult to lease the space.”
Senior Care
Senior living was another popular interview theme—a result 
of the universal shortage of existing product and a demo -
graphic trend throughout Asia (Japan in particular) toward 
longer life spans. 
Senior care facilities are tricky in Asia, however, for a 
number of reasons. First, differing cultural expectations as to EXHIBIT 1-13
Prime Yields by Sector, Q2 2013
Source: CBRE Research.0%2%4%6%8%10%
Industrial
Ofﬁce
Hong
KongSingapore Tokyo Seoul Shanghai Sydney
14
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014the type and standards of care mean that imported Western 
models will likely fail. Asia must therefore find its own models. 
Investors must “try to figure out, for example, how a whole 
generation of Chinese in a certain social stratum is going to 
behave. Are they going to buy a retirement home the way their 
counterparts did in the U.S. 50 years ago? Probably not,” said 
one investor. Acute care–type facilities, on the other hand, are 
likely to be in greater demand. 
In addition, as a developer with experience in senior care 
facilities in Australia said, “You have to take a long-term view 
and particularly target your demographic pretty well. So we’re 
not looking at moving into a part of that demographic that is 
probably the broadest, which actually is the demographic 
that can probably least afford it. It’s more likely to be into the 
wealthier end of the market where you can provide a pretty 
high standard of accommodation.”
Beyond that, the industry will have to find an investment 
framework for its chosen model. According to the same 
developer, “We’re looking at a number of models, and that is 
part of the problem: what is the right one—not even for Asia, 
but for each country? In Australia, the model has gone toward 
a split management fee between management and operator. 
In other countries that’s too complex, so it’ll be different—it 
might be a rental model; it might be a management-fee 
model; it could be a bond, like in Hong Kong; it could also be 
part of a health care REIT. So there is a whole raft of different 
approaches you could take.” 
Self-Storage
Asia’s small living spaces mean that increasingly wealthy 
consumers are running out of space to store the things they’ve bought, creating demand for third-party storage facilities. 
According to one investor active in this area, Asians use self-
storage in a different way than in developed countries, where 
people probably have more possessions: “In the West, it’s like 
renting an extra garage; in Asia, it’s like renting a closet,” he 
said. In one recent Japanese investment, cap rates registered 
between 7 and 8 percent, with financing available at 2 per -
cent. Self-storage is a possible play in other parts of Asia also, 
but each market has its quirks—and in some cases, these 
make investments problematic. In China, for instance, the 
market is still too early “because people with a lot of money 
who therefore need more space probably already have resi-
dential units that are sitting empty.” And in Hong Kong and 
Singapore, the alternative-use value for potential self-storage 
assets is probably too high to justify the purchase price of 
property suitable for conversion. 
Sustainable Buildings
Creating sustainable commercial buildings has long been on 
the agenda of Asian developers, but in the past the concept 
failed to achieve much traction largely due to the percep -
tion that building green generates more costs than can be 
recouped during the lifetime of the building. That perception, 
however, may be starting to shift. 
As a representative of a large developer operating across 
Asia said, “Developers who say that you don’t get extra 
value—I think they’re living in the dark ages. It’s a competi -
tive advantage because tenants, investors, and governments 
demand it.” Those looking to flip projects for a quick profit 
may be less inclined to go the extra mile. But given the trend 
toward developers’ building and holding assets over time, 
“people will look for how to maximize value, and any enlight -
ened long-term investor is going to ask, ‘How do I prevent my 
building from [becoming] a dinosaur, how do I continue to 
attract investors?’ ” 
Measuring the extent to which a sustainable approach will 
enhance the value of a building over the long term is hard to 
assess. In terms of higher rents, however, the benefits—while 
tangible—remain modest. As one interviewee said, “There 
is some element of markup, or some element of credit being 
given now for sustainability, but it doesn’t represent the true 
return you would like to see—it’s a markup, but no more than 
that.”
Another problem is that even though countries like China 
and Japan have a strong regulatory focus on sustainability at 
the highest level, local authorities often have little inclination 
to enforce the rules. In China, for example, “we have a whole 
series of eco-initiatives that often are being driven at a country 
or city level in joint ventures across cities. But very few of them 
seem to be making any serious headway.” In Japan, “they’re 
very highly motivated, but there doesn’t seem to be a real 
push in Tokyo itself to create green buildings,” said one inves -
tor. At the same time, the national mandate in Japan to reduce 
energy consumption by 15 percent in the wake of the 2011 EXHIBIT 1-14
Net Change in Population in Asia over Next  
20 Years, by Age Group
Source: Global Demographics Ltd.-100-50050100150200250300
80+ 70–79 60–69 50–59 40–49 30–39 20–29 10–19 0–9Change (millions)
15
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdearthquake is now creating greater focus on sustainability that 
may, over time, translate into a more progressive approach. “It 
can be frustrating dealing with the Tokyo metropolitan govern -
ment, but when this changes it will be a significant disruptive 
way to approach Tokyo and invest in existing buildings,” 
said a developer. “In fact, I see that as our best play into that 
market.”
As for the extra expense, he continued, “It has cost more, 
but costs have come down significantly. We can build a 
five-star Green Star or a Green Mark today for no more than it 
would have cost five years ago to build a normal building.” As 
one Hong Kong–based consultant said, “If you do things in 
a sustainable way from the outset, starting to introduce extra 
features and all the rest, the industry talks about a 2 percent 
to 5 percent premium. I would argue, though, that if you do 
things in an organized way from the outset, you could prob -
ably get away without any major premiums.” 
In principle, retrofitting existing buildings to a green 
standard is a much bigger market than that for new build -
ings. However, the poor quality of much of Asia’s commercial 
stock, combined with the high cost of land as a proportion 
of total development value, means it is often cheaper to tear 
down old buildings and start again. Beyond that, governments 
need to do more to incentivize owners to undertake retrofit -
ting projects, preferably via a “carrot and stick” approach, as 
one interviewee put it. Markets like Hong Kong, Tokyo, and 
Australia, where building standards are usually higher, are 
seen as particularly well suited for retrofitting plays. Take Development Risk 
Another way to enhance returns is to enter at the development 
level. Historically, codevelopment in Asia has been difficult 
because most Asian developers have little incentive to pay 
private equity–type returns when they can get cheaper capital 
from a bank. But an increasing number of co-invested devel -
opment deals are now being struck, at least in some markets. 
The popularity of this development play is reflected in this 
year’s survey responses, where development was the only 
category registering a higher sentiment score than last year. 
Several large institutional players that have opened offices 
in Asia in order to gain access to direct deals have opted to 
co-invest in development sites as a means of securing core 
assets that would otherwise be unavailable or too expensive. 
This is something of a departure from normal practice at 
institutional funds, but is being driven mainly by necessity. As 
a manager at one such fund said, “We do quite a lot of devel -
opment in China, which is a little different from a plain-vanilla 
pension fund. But these days, people will take—or anyway we 
will take—development risk in what we perceive to be growth 
markets, or markets where you can’t buy core, but you can 
build and hold it.”
Referring to the difficulty of buying first-tier commercial 
projects in China, one consultant said, “The sector is attract -
ing increased external investment and increased domestic 
investment—obviously the pension funds, insurance compa -
nies, and domestic institutions are beginning to get involved. 
The challenge again is one of product. The situation has 
improved in that there’s more grade A–type product, but it’s 
EXHIBIT 1-15
Real Estate Transparency Scores: Asia Pacific
Transparency level Country/territory 2012 rank 2012 score 2010 score 2008 score 2006 score
High transparency Australia 3 1.36 1.22 1.15 1.19
New Zealand 5 1.48 1.25 1.25 1.19
Transparent Hong Kong 11 1.76 1.76 1.46 1.50
Singapore 13 1.85 1.73 1.46 1.55
Malaysia 23 2.32 2.30 2.21 2.30
Japan 25 2.39 2.30 2.40 3.08
Semi-transparent Taiwan 29 2.60 2.71 3.12 3.10
China (tier 1 cities) 32 2.83 3.14 3.34 3.71
Philippines 35 2.86 3.15 3.32 3.43
Indonesia 38 2.92 3.46 3.59 4.11
Thailand 39 2.94 3.02 3.21 3.40
South Korea 41 2.96 3.11 3.16 3.36
China (tier 2 cities) 46 3.04 3.38 3.68 —
India (tier 1 cities) 48 3.07 3.11 3.44 3.90
Low transparency Vietnam 68 3.76 4.25 4.36 4.60
Source: Jones Lang LaSalle, “Real Estate Transparency Asia Pacific.”
Notes: Data revised every two years; — = not available.
16
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014still not enough. So all of them—and this is where they all 
came unstuck in the past—are beginning to assume develop -
ment risk again. They’d prefer not to get involved, but virtually 
all the ones we are dealing with are having to accept it.”
At present, opportunities also exist to enter development 
deals with smaller Chinese developers caught by the govern -
ment’s liquidity squeeze, who may be open to some kind of 
structured finance deal as a quasi-distress solution. 
Beyond that, it is probably fair to say that bigger Chinese 
developers today are more receptive to pairing with foreign 
players because it suits their purposes in a broader sense. It 
may allow them, for instance, to tap foreign expertise in par -
ticular areas such as retail management. In addition, as one 
fund manager observed, “A lot of these big firms want to part -
ner with Western names because it adds credibility to their 
proposition in the market—basically, being associated with a 
good Western name doesn’t do their share price any harm.” 
Australia is another market where development is seen as 
a possible play. As a Singapore-based opportunistic investor 
said, “There’s plenty of potential on a risk-adjusted basis. And 
when you compare the risk profiles of Australia to China, or 
[to] any part of Asia, it may not punch the lights out in terms of 
returns, but you can deliver in the low-20s net by taking some 
development risk.” 
In Asia’s emerging and frontier markets, development 
may also prove to be one of the only feasible strategies, if 
only because the lack of investable stock means there is very 
little to buy—assuming, of course, investors can navigate the 
market and stomach the risk. As one Hong Kong–based con -
sultant said, “In emerging Asian markets there could be some 
overdevelopment, but if you want to own, for example, prime 
retail in Southeast Asia, I think development is one of the 
solutions.” In addition, one opportunistic fund manager com -
mented, “One of the few places where you actually get paid 
a sufficient development margin to build an office building 
is Jakarta. In developing countries there actually is a decent 
development margin, whereas in places like Singapore or 
Hong Kong it just doesn’t make sense.” 
Emerging and Frontier Markets 
Difficulties in gaining access to Asia’s emerging or frontier 
economies mean that, in practice, investing is usually restricted 
to larger and more experienced players. Again, however, higher 
potential yields remain a big draw, and investor interest in these 
destinations remains strong. Over time, there is little doubt that 
these markets will become better equipped to handle invest -
ment flows, but the fact that so many investors are prepared 
to consider a move now was seen by some as a red flag. Said 
one interviewee, “It’s not to say that it’s not potentially attractive 
for certain types of investors, but in terms of the scale of the 
market, and your practical ability to get money in, and the risk 
you’re taking, it reflects the fact that it’s very difficult to identify EXHIBIT 1-16
Importance of Various Issues for Real Estate  
in 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific surveys.Economic/ﬁnancial issues
Social/political issues
Real estate/development issues20132014
Japanese ﬁnancial instabilityEuropean ﬁnancial instabilityEnergy pricesProvincial and local budget problemsNational ﬁscal deﬁcits/imbalancesNew national ﬁnancial regulationsGlobal economic growthTax policiesInﬂationIncome and wage changeJob growthInterest rates
Climate change/global warmingSocial equity/inequalityImmigrationTerrorism/war
1 2 3 4 5CMBS market recoveryNIMBYismGreen buildingsAffordable/workforce housingTransportation fundingInfrastructure fundingConstruction costsFuture home pricesDeleveragingReﬁnancingVacancy ratesLand costs1
No importance3
Moderate importance5
Great importance
4.23
4.16
4.09
3.763.71
3.68
3.35
3.35
3.033.01
2.83
2.754.10
4.01
3.87
3.653.723.89
3.53
3.24
3.103.09
3.55
N.A.
3.16
2.95
2.872.373.28
3.23
3.092.47
4.17
3.803.793.40
3.77
3.773.523.13
3.03
2.802.75
2.723.97
3.813.84
3.47
3.773.55
3.40
2.932.942.80
2.89
2.91
17
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the Crowdcountercyclical plays. Overall, Asia still feels like a market with 
too much money and not enough opportunity.”
The Philippines
While the Philippines has long suffered from a reputation 
for lack of transparency, a significant number of executives 
interviewed for this year’s report were more upbeat about 
the current political environment, naming the country as their 
preferred choice among similar Asian markets. In addition, 
capital city Manila emerged as the top destination among 
various investment sector categories in the Emerging Trends  
survey. As one investor described it, “It’s a good niche play—
it won’t register on the radar for a lot of institutional investors; 
it’s just too small and too accident-prone. But I think for people 
who are prepared to get in there and spend time and under -
stand the market and the drivers, there is good value there.”
Until now, most foreign investment in the Philippines 
revolved around the business process outsourcing (BPO) 
sector, usually involving call centers. More recently, however, 
investment interest has broadened and in particular has 
focused on back-office functions for multinational compa -
nies, especially in the finance sector. One foreign investor 
active in the Philippines pointed to the huge amounts of office 
space absorbed in Manila in 2012, which at some 4 mil -
lion square feet rivaled uptake in Tokyo, whose stock of 400 
million to 450 million square feet was far bigger: “So Manila 
is where India was ten years ago,” he said. “Multinationals, 
and not just call centers, will be adding employees in Manila 
over the next three years, the reason being that you have an 
English-educated workforce who is 95 percent literate. A col -
lege-educated CPA out of school—you pay him US$11,000 
per year.” 
While securing access to product in the Philippines is pre -
dictably difficult for foreigners, especially as the long-touted 
REIT industry has yet to materialize, there are occasional 
possibilities to invest in core products. On the opportunistic 
side, cap rates are in the 9 to 10 percent range, while devel -
opment returns are 15 to 20 percent. A yield spread of 350 to 
450 basis points over financing costs can generate mid-teens 
operating cash flow. 
Another investor with experience working in the Philippines 
commented, “I think it’s definitely an underdog, but fundamen -
tals there do look good. I like the Philippine economy from a 
demographics perspective, and they do manufacture more 
than people think. The problem is just a lack of political leader -
ship and the amount of corruption, which, at the end of the day, 
stops infrastructure works from being completed. It creates a 
bit of a time warp, like Thailand before the Asian crisis.”
Indonesia 
For most investors, the Indonesian market means either 
Jakarta or Bali, both of which continue to be popular in 2013 
despite setbacks for the local economy as a result of invest -ment outflows in response to the prospect of tapering in the 
United States. In addition, and although development yields 
are reputedly high, Indonesia is “difficult to operate in for 
lots of reasons.” As one developer related, “It has immense 
potential as far as the whole outline of land development is 
concerned, but the problem that prevents us from going in is 
that of getting clean land title.” 
Beyond that, there is little incentive for local developers 
to partner with foreigners. As one investor said, “I suspect 
very few people have actually invested there, particularly the 
funds, the challenge being that it’s dominated by wealthy 
Indonesians. The locals are just so strong, and it’s a bit like 
the Philippines in that respect. If you’re going to develop 
something, these guys have vast land banks at extremely low 
historic cost, so assuming you’re buying at market [rate] you’re 
competing at a very low land cost basis. It’s scary.”
Nonetheless, the growth story is compelling and investors 
continue to test the waters. “It’s tough to compete, but we’d 
like to do more and we continue to talk and look,” said one 
investor. Said another, “People are talking about Indonesia as 
the next big mover, and we see more institutional capital com -
ing into that market.” 
Vietnam
For the last couple of years, serious economic and gover -
nance issues have kept many investors away from Vietnam. 
Inflation rose to a peak of approximately 23 percent in 2012, 
while the banking system has recently suffered problems as 
billions of dollars’ worth of loans made by domestic banks 
have gone bad. Despite these issues, however, investors are 
again looking at Vietnam as a possible play, partly because 
there is a perception it may now be at the bottom of the cycle, 
and partly because it has recently experienced a significant 
inflow of manufacturers adopting the “China + 1” model. 
On the ground, according to one Vietnam-based inter -
viewee, there are sure signs of a pickup in momentum: “This 
time last year there were zero launches, there was zero inter -
est,” he said. “Potential buyers could simply put their money 
into the bank and get about a 16 percent return, or buy gold, 
which is historically a favored investment. But over the last 18 
months, gold prices have declined along with interest rates, 
so that makes for an improved environment for real estate 
investment.” As a result, “you’re seeing developers restart -
ing projects. It’s still very early days—they’re not pushing up 
prices, but they are able to launch second and third phases.”
There are likely to be a large number of nonperforming 
real estate loans in Vietnam, but foreign investors will prob -
ably have little chance to invest in distress. As one investor 
said, “In Vietnam, there is no word for distress. Investors may 
come hoping to see, if not blood in the streets, prices at least 
marked to market. But for various reasons, developers and 
land bankers still feel they won’t have to sell to cover their 
loans. In smoke-filled karaoke rooms there may be deals 
18
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014done, but you rarely see properties on the open market. It’s a 
bit like China insofar as distressed properties tend to change 
hands to connected parties rather than to outside investors.” 
One sector that has seen more activity recently is indus -
trial parks, often in northern Vietnamese cities such as Hanoi 
and Haiphong. As one consultant said, “Vietnam is back on 
the radar for industrial, which is now a bigger opportunity 
than office. It’s now the busiest time in five years, and better-
quality tenants, too. We’re seeing a lot of interest from the 
Japanese—they’ve been based here a long time, but things 
have now picked up: my telephone bill to Japan is five times 
higher this year than last.” 
Regulations Chill Overheated 
Markets 
Governments across Asia have never been reluctant to use 
regulations to curb real estate volatility, at least partly because 
of the area’s volatile economies. This is especially so in ultra-
low-interest-rate environments like Hong Kong and Singapore.
In Hong Kong, authorities at the start of the year intro-  
duced a new round of transaction taxes and raised downpay -
ment requirements for both the residential and commercial 
sectors. In Singapore, the government’s four-year campaign 
to curb home prices continued with a further round of transac -
tion tax increases, together with a new policy tool that caps 
total consumer debt available from banks at 60 percent of 
borrowers’ incomes. 
The measures have had a chilling effect on residential 
transactions in both cities, particularly at the high end. That 
said, mass-market pricing has yet to fall significantly in either 
place, while the strength of underlying demand is apparent 
in buyer responses to developer price cuts. Nonetheless, ana -
lysts and interviewees alike are now projecting price declines 
in both residential markets of 10 to 20 percent for 2014. 
There has been an impact on the commercial side, 
too. As one Hong Kong–based fund manager observed, 
“Mathematically, you could have calculated that pricing would 
come off 3 to 4 percent and the market would continue. But 
the measures affected sentiment, and sentiment is king in 
Hong Kong, so there’s been a massive drop in investor activ -
ity.” In Singapore, sales of strata-title commercial properties, 
which had mushroomed in recent years as the government 
began to target the residential sector, fell sharply. Retail strata 
sales were down 60 percent quarter on quarter in the July-
August period alone, according to broker DTZ.
Although the rules have been predictably unpopular in 
both markets, interviewees generally viewed them positively. 
“There was too much speculative activity, too much partici -
pation by the newer mom-and-pop investors, and too many 
strata-title little units being transacted across all asset classes, 
including industrial but also retail and office.” In any event, 
the rules seem unlikely to be displaced in the foreseeable future. In Singapore, for example, the government “is going to 
continue to implement more regulations to soften the market, 
which is good, and basically correct the market, which is 
needed.”
New regulations have also been introduced in 2013 in 
Taiwan (limiting local insurance companies from investing in 
commercial property assets) and in New Zealand (restricting 
local banks from offering highly leveraged home mortgages). 
In China, the residential sector was resurgent in 2013, 
despite an ongoing regulatory crackdown in place since early 
2011. Home sales transactions increased 34.5 percent year 
on year in the first nine months, while prices increased 10.7 
percent, according to SouFun, China’s biggest real estate 
website. Land sales and prices also registered some dramatic 
increases, although this should not necessarily be interpreted 
as an endorsement of the market’s future strength. According 
to one local developer, the buying “is coming from some of 
the biggest developers, and they’re just recycling their profits 
and replenishing land banks as they always do. From a strat -
egy point of view, they have to replenish, so it’s not necessarily 
indicative of a bullish mentality.” 
Will the authorities step in again? Reading the tea leaves 
in China is notoriously difficult. But as one Hong Kong–based 
consultant said, “There’s certainly concern in Beijing about 
the need for further cooling. The leakage is around the edges, 
cities paying lip service to the rules, but being somewhat 
relaxed in their attitudes—so my sense is that the interven -
tion may not be extra measures, but for Beijing to police the 
situation more closely.” Others questioned the new govern -
ment’s commitment to current restrictions given the generally 
sluggish economy and widespread resistance to existing 
policies from local governments financially reliant on land 
sales revenues. Said a representative of a large mainland 
developer, “People are always talking about government 
measures, but that’s more of an outsider’s point of view. An 
insider’s point of view is that people find all sorts of ways to 
buy and sell anyway. My personal view is that they probably 
have more in mind to introduce property taxes, which are a 
longer-term goal.”
Whatever the prognosis for further policy curbs, however, 
the existing restrictions had already taken some of the shine 
off the sector. Although housing continues to draw substan -
tial volumes of capital, and its self-liquidating nature has 
long made it a favorite in a market where exiting deals can 
prove challenging, recent returns are down from their peaks. 
Nowadays, according to one investor, “it’s harder than ever to 
make the numbers work in China residential. Land costs con -
tinue to go up, construction costs continue to go up. You’ve 
still got reasonably healthy absorption, but it’s spottier than 
it was, and as a result developers will cut prices when they 
need to sell inventory, which puts pressure on the top line and 
squeezes your margins. So the view is that, in tier-one markets 
especially, the government will keep its foot on the brakes for 
a long time—it’s just not as straightforward as it used to be.” 
19
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the CrowdChinese Oversupply: Fact or 
Fantasy? 
Rumors of real estate bubbles, oversupply, and ghost towns 
have been circulating for years, especially in Western media. 
Last year, Emerging Trends Asia Pacific  examined the issue in 
relation to China’s residential sector and outlined a number of 
reasons why the bubble thesis was generally misconceived, 
with ongoing demand and rising incomes continuing to drive 
the market going forward. 
This year the position is little changed, despite the fact that 
Chinese home prices have once again begun to accelerate, 
picking up anywhere between 16 and 20 percent year on 
year in September 2013, according to official figures. As one 
foreign developer said, “I would say honestly there’s not much 
of a fear factor. In first-tier cities, the real demand and the 
upgrading demand for homes [are] just enormous, and you 
can say that for the second tier, too. The third tier is where we 
don’t see that many opportunities—the further away you get 
from first and second tier, the more of a gamble it will be.” 
More recently, talk of oversupply in China has become 
increasingly focused on the office and retail sectors, espe -
cially in secondary and tertiary cities. On the office side, 
interviewees described the situation as “terrifying” and “ugly” 
and “extraordinary.” As usual in China, though, the oversupply 
issue is more complex than it seems. First of all, much of the 
glut of new office space is poorly conceived and located, with 
too much thought given to exterior appearance and too little 
to interior factors such as floor-plate efficiency. “It’s quite good 
not to have a column in the middle of the board room,” as one 
investor put it. Second, and partly as a result, much of this unsophisti -
cated new stock is eventually sold on as strata title, at which 
point it generally becomes poorly managed and disappears 
off the radar as a competitive grade-A product. As a rep -
resentative of one large foreign developer active in China 
said, “People going into these offices will not be financial or 
business-services people, and a lot of it is strata-sold and 
rented off to small and medium-sized enterprises where it has 
a life of its own—so in that sense, they’re playing in a very dif -
ferent market segment.”
Finally, according to the same developer, the perception of 
oversupply is tempered by the fact that “state-owned enter -
prises are now gobbling up the underdemand,” at least in the 
second-tier cities. This is a repeat of the experience a few 
years ago in Beijing, where government-related bodies also 
stepped in to pick up the slack following a similar glut of office 
supply. Fears the influx would prove short-lived have proved 
unfounded; today, supply in Beijing’s office sector remains 
tight despite years of strong price and rental increases. 
China’s retail sector, meanwhile, is experiencing a similar 
glut in supply. At present, the mainland is by far the most 
active development market in the world for retail projects, 
according to CBRE, accounting for almost half of the 32 
million square meters of new space under construction. Yet 
many projects are misconceived in type and location, with 
little understanding of the complexities of managing large 
malls. The problem is now exacerbated by an extraordinary 
boom in internet-sourced sales and (at the high end) by an 
ongoing government crackdown on official gift-giving. As a 
result, according to one developer, “I’d say with quite a bit of 
certainty that many people are going to fail—the days of try -
ing to get in Louis Vuitton and thinking that will be enough are 
EXHIBIT 1-17
Forecast for Real GDP Growth Rate, in Percent
Country/territory 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017*
China 10.45% 9.24% 7.70% 7.6 0% 7.25% 7.0 3% 7.01% 6.97%
Indonesia 6.20% 6.46% 6.23% 5.30% 5.50% 6.00% 6.00% 6.00%
Thailand 7.78% 0.05% 6.49% 3.11% 5.25% 5.01% 4.41% 4.68%
India 10.09% 6.84% 3.24% 3.80% 5.15% 6.27% 6.47% 6.65%
Vietnam 6.78% 5.89% 5.25% 5.30% 5.40% 5.40% 5.50% 5.50%
Philippines 7.6 3% 3.91% 6.81% 6.81% 6.03% 5.50% 5.50% 5.50%
Malaysia 7.15% 5.08% 5.64% 4.70% 4.90% 5.20% 5.20% 5.20%
Taiwan 10.72% 4.03% 1.32% 2.19% 3.77% 3.93% 4.16% 4.38%
South Korea 6.32% 3.63% 2.04% 2.84% 3.68% 3.96% 3.99% 4.03%
Hong Kong 7.09% 5.03% 1.50% 2.98% 4.38% 4.40% 4.49% 4.51%
New Zealand 1.82% 1.35% 2.65% 2.54% 2.94% 2.44% 2.50% 2.54%
Australia 2.51% 2.14% 3.67% 2.47% 2.78% 2.95% 2.97% 3.02%
Singapore 14.76% 4.89% 1.32% 3.54% 3.43% 3.61% 3.78% 3.86%
Japan 4.53% -0.76% 1.96% 1.95% 1.24% 1.13% 1.17% 1.13%
Source: International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook Database, October 2013.
* Forecasts.
20
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014well and truly over. China is not a market like the U.S. where 
you have regional malls everywhere, and it’s also extremely 
competitive. It’s going to surprise a lot of people when even 
projects by well-known developers may not necessarily work.”
Again, however, more sophisticated players have so far 
remained relatively unscathed. In part, this is because a 
lot of the competition is unversed in retail management. As 
one developer commented, “Only a very small amount of 
this huge supply is what we call organized retail. A lot of it is 
strata-sold, and the moment [that happens] it’s no longer our 
competitor—these are the shopping centers that will die going 
forward. Those that are professionally organized and man -
aged are relatively scarce.”
Another reason is that oversupply is often a local phenom -
enon that can be avoided to some extent. As one developer 
put it, “We look at the usual [second-tier] suspects, but some 
of those suspects look more oversupplied than others, so we 
try to go where the oversupply situation doesn’t look as threat -
ening.” In addition, he continued, overarching strategy plays 
a big role: “We’re not stretched across too many compromise 
sites; we take a lot of time to pick the locations; we don’t pick 
too many; and the ones we pick we think are very, very good, 
according to our own criteria. So, if you have the right product 
and make people want to come and spend, there might be 
four or five competitors next door, but people just won’t go—
on paper it looks like you’re in an oversupplied environment, 
but it doesn’t affect everybody.” Tapering—What Does It Mean?
Although investor sentiment in this year’s Emerging Trends  
survey remains strong in general, there was still significant 
concern surrounding two main themes. 
The first relates to the possibility of a further slowing in the 
Chinese economy, creating a knock-on impact for the rest 
of the Asia Pacific region in terms of both direct and export-
processing trade. This has been a longstanding source of 
anxiety among Asian investors that has been noted in previ -
ous editions of this report. However, there seems to be little 
prospect of further economic slowing in the mainland over 
the short term given that Beijing continues to provide stimulus 
whenever the economy seems on the brink of stalling. What 
appears to be a “mini-stimulus” took effect during the third 
quarter of 2013, with gross domestic product (GDP) growth 
rising to 7.8 percent year on year from a low of 7.5 percent the 
previous quarter, more or less on a par with growth in 2012. 
The easing has probably contributed to the strong pickup in 
China’s residential real estate pricing and sales in the second 
half of 2013. 
Another—and probably bigger—issue for Asian inves -
tors is concern about the consequences for local economies 
of a “tapering” by the U.S. Federal Reserve sometime in the 
near future. In mid-2013, market anxiety over the prospect of 
tapering in the United States had a significant impact on Asian 
currencies and stock markets as Western investors repatriated 
portfolio investments. 
Although the tapering ultimately failed to materialize as 
expected, leaving local capital markets and currencies to 
retrace some or most losses, the extent to which Asia remains 
exposed to whiplash from capital outflows was an ominous 
sign. It is true that most real estate assets in Asia (with the 
obvious exception of those listed on local exchanges) are not 
directly affected by these portfolio outflows, but the indirect 
impact can still be considerable. As one consultant said, 
“The flows were coming in through emerging-market bond 
funds, and eventually filtered through the banking system into 
the consumer sector and also to the developers. So it’s not 
necessarily hot money going into real estate [directly], but the 
hot money can stimulate demand, which stimulates invest -
ment and ends up coming through into real estate [indirectly].” 
While in absolute terms the quantum of hot money flows 
involved may not be substantial, its impact on the margins by 
way of the multiplier effect can be disproportionate to its size 
both on the way in and on the way out. Emerging markets are 
expected to be especially exposed to this phenomenon. 
The biggest issue of all, however, as far as most real estate 
investors are concerned, is the prospect of higher interest 
rates. This begs the question of whether the beginning of the 
tapering (which involves reducing the volume of the Federal Source: Real Capital Analytics, www.rcanalytics.com.
Notes: Yields are 12-month rolling averages of office, retail, and industrial properties.  
Ten-year government bond yields. Data for period ending June 2013.EXHIBIT 1-18
Property Yield Spreads vs. Government Bond Rates
0 100 200 300 400 500 600Spread (basis points)
Yield0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10%Hong
KongSingaporeUnited
StatesJapanAustralia
Government bondsProperty yield
Spread
21
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 1:  Navigating the CrowdReserve’s bond repurchase program) actually means an 
increase in U.S. short-term rates, and, by extension, rates in 
Asia. The Fed has said specifically that it does not (linking 
this instead to the U.S. unemployment rate), but certainly the 
beginning of the tapering brings the prospect of higher inter -
est rates one step closer, which has a psychological impact 
on investment. 
The key question is: When rates do eventually begin mov -
ing back toward historical norms, what will the impact be? 
One investor said, “Conventionally, if interest rates go up, cap 
rates have to go up as well, which means property prices fall.” 
There are, however, various nuances to this principle, the most 
important of which is perhaps that when investors enjoy a big 
yield spread—as they currently do in many Asian markets—
an increase in interest rates will simply return the yield spread 
to its own historical norm without requiring cap rates to move. 
Rising interest rates are therefore likely to have a dispro -
portionate impact on asset pricing in two situations:
■■Where yields are already super-compressed, as in mar -
kets such as Hong Kong and Singapore; and
■■In markets such as Australia, Japan, and India, where 
investors are already betting on an element of cap rate com -
pression to justify projected returns. This is particularly the 
case in Australia, where global funds targeting core assets 
at rates of, say, 7.5 percent will find that shrinking Australian 
yield spreads will lessen the appeal of local assets relative to 
similar properties in U.S. gateway markets, where cap rates 
are expected to move out. Said one fund manager, “Australia 
prime assets that are at 7.5 look ludicrous—those cap rates 
look like outliers, and given what’s happened with the ten-year 
[U.S. Treasury bond], in Australia you would expect real cap 
rate compression. But when cap rates start backing up in the 
U.S., that relative attractiveness starts to go away in a hurry.”

23
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014The steady stream of capital inflows to Asia that was so 
much the hallmark of U.S. economic easing in 2012 
went into reverse in 2013, as the prospect of reduced 
economic stimulus in the United States prompted investors to 
repatriate assets back to the West. So far, though, the impact 
of this sell-off has been mostly confined to developers and 
real estate investment trusts (REITs) listed on the region’s 
capital markets. This is partly because they are more liquid, 
and partly because they are more sensitive to interest rate 
movements than other types of assets.
The physical market, by contrast, has been left unscathed. 
Why? As one fund manager said, “I think people recognize 
that real estate cycles are longer than equity cycles, and if 
everyone takes their global allocation and says it all has to go 
to New York and Chicago, it’s going to be a very overcrowded 
market.” As another interviewee observed, “The notion that 
there was this influx of hot money making it incredibly com -
petitive, and then a switch goes and it all closes down—it just 
doesn’t happen, it’s not discernible.” 
However, while talk of tapering is therefore unlikely to 
affect allocations to Asia, most investors concede that the 
macro-implications of portfolio outflows—combined with 
the prospect of higher interest rates—are likely, over time, to 
trickle down to affect asset prices. 
What’s more, the tapering is not the only source of 
potential weakness in non-Asian capital flows. To start with, 
U.S. investment banks—so long the dominant force in cross-
border real estate investing—have now largely left the scene 
as a result of regulatory changes introduced in the wake of the 
global financial crisis. Private equity participation is grow -
ing, but has yet to pick up the slack, and foreign funds are 
probably net sellers in the current market anyway. In addi -tion, recent Asian economic growth has been anemic: “Asia’s 
relative attractiveness has weakened because economies out 
here have slowed a lot more than people expected—senti -
ment has picked up recently, but for the first half of the year all 
the noise coming out of China was horrible.” Finally, real estate 
markets in both the United States and Europe currently offer 
better risk-adjusted returns. As a result, as one investor said, 
“If you look at capital flows, you’ll probably find there’s more 
money coming out of Asia than is coming into it.”
Although local fund managers continue to talk about inter -
national investors being under-allocated to Asian real estate, 
the appetite to increase allocations anytime soon appears 
weak. Still, none of this is necessarily bad news. For some, chapter 2
Real Estate  Capital Flows
“We’re going through a phase when Asia is not the right place to be—things 
will cool off and we’re going to be well positioned   
to buy assets we think are cheaper.”
EXHIBIT 2-1
Change in Availability of Equity Capital for  
Real Estate in 2014 by Source Location
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.1
Very large
decline5
Stay the same9
Very large
increaseEuropeMiddle EastUnited States/CanadaAsia Paciﬁc 5.89
5.445.304.64
24
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014in fact, it is exactly what they’ve been waiting for. As one 
fund manager at a large opportunity fund said, “We’re going 
through a phase when Asia is not the right place to be, and 
money is flowing to America. There’s a lag effect in real estate, 
but I think it will eventually affect domestic operating com -
panies and should play through to real estate over time. We 
quite like that from a buying perspective, because it should 
affect pricing—things will cool off and we’re going to be well 
positioned to buy assets we think are cheaper.”This buy-the-dip mentality—assuming a dip occurs—only 
underscores the confidence of many Asian investors that the 
long-term drivers of the market—economic growth, rising 
incomes, ongoing urbanization, and structural undersupply of 
commercial and residential stock—remain intact.
Asian Capital Dominates
If global capital is no longer the force it once was in Asia, this 
is at least partly because there are vast quantities of newly 
minted regional money that have stepped up to replace it. 
Asian investors of all descriptions—from institutional funds to 
insurance companies to sovereign wealth funds to high-net-
worth individuals—are buying real estate throughout Asia in 
unprecedented volumes. In fact, according to Jones Lang 
LaSalle, about 88 percent of all Asian commercial real estate 
transactions originated from within the region in the first three 
quarters of 2013, with many of the buyers coming from China. 
One reason for this is that the volume of capital accumulated 
in many Asian countries has far outstripped the capacity of 
domestic markets to absorb it.
In terms of private investment, there has been a significant 
rotation of foreign capital away from Hong Kong, where the 
introduction of regulations aimed at stemming speculative 
investment in real estate has seen high-net-worth Chinese 
money move to other destinations. Interviewees reported 
substantially higher levels of Chinese capital in almost every 
major Asian market, especially for high-end residential assets 
(except for Singapore, where similar regulations have taken 
effect).
In Japan, for example, “we’re seeing a lot of speculators 
coming from Singapore, Hong Kong, and mainland China 
buying individual condominium units for cash—that’s been 
EXHIBIT 2-3
Real Estate Capital Market Balance Prospects  
for 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.+3++41++31++22++3+3++36++33++28++0
2.5%
Substantially 
undersupplied40.7%
Moderately 
undersupplied31.4%
In balance22.0%
Moderately 
oversupplied3.4%
Substantially 
oversupplied3.3%
Substantially 
undersupplied36.7%
Moderately 
undersupplied32.5%
In balance27.5%
Moderately 
oversupplied0.0%
Substantially 
oversupplied
Debt capitalEquity capitalPrivate direct real estate 
investments 
Publicly listed developers
Commercial mortgage–
backed securitiesPublicly listed property 
companies or REITs
Publicly listed equities
Investment-grade bondsEXHIBIT 2-2
Investment Prospects by Asset Class for 2014
excellent
good
fair
poor
abysmal
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.
25
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 2:  Real Estate Capital Flowshappening for the last six months and they’ve been driving the 
Tokyo high-end condo market pretty hard. That’s clearly going 
to increase because the market has changed in Singapore 
and Hong Kong and they see Tokyo as a value. Whether they 
make money is another story.”
In Australia “there’s been lots of talk about affordability 
and of a housing bubble in Sydney, and there’s no doubt that 
affordability is now an issue. But the reality is that the demand 
is there—at the high end, a lot of it is Chinese money com -
ing in.” In addition, “there’s been both private and institutional 
Chinese money coming here to buy commercial properties—
the phenomenon has been around for a while, but earlier this 
year we saw it getting sticky and deals getting done. And in the 
apartment sector, I understand that Chinese developers have 
also been coming into the market.” In particular, according to 
another interviewee, “there has been an upswing in interest 
from Chinese buyers taking well-located B-grade office assets 
that are overlooking parks or in a reasonable CBD [central busi -
ness district] location for residential conversions.”
Chinese Developers Join the 
Exodus
This year, the outward trend appears particularly strong 
among Chinese developers. As one Hong Kong–based 
consultant said, “I think we’re going to see many more of them 
edge into [other parts of] Asia over the next 12 to 18 months—
everyone we talk to seems to have that on their agenda. Their 
motive: diversification, learning how things are done outside 
the mainland, and becoming members of the international 
development community.” 
Often, Chinese developers will invest together with a local 
partner. Increasingly, too, they are willing to operate alone, 
generally focusing on residential projects, “maybe with a bit 
of retail thrown in to make things more exciting.” In Malaysia, 
for example, according to one Singapore-based developer, 
“Some Chinese developers are coming here on their own. 
In Johor Bahru, they came over and showed Singaporean 
and Malaysian developers they can manage it alone. They’re 
giants—they sold something like 6,000 units within a few 
weeks.”
Foreign investments by Chinese developers are often 
aimed at a Chinese clientele. As one interviewee said, “It’s 
about people movement, about capturing these flows of 
Chinese people as they go around the world, be they busi -
ness visitors or people on location, and creating a whole 
infrastructure to support them.” At the same time, he adds, 
“they [the developers] understand there’s also a downside to 
that, so it’s also about creating something they could also hold 
for investment, but with a cross-border clientele.”Western Assets Targeted 
Not all Chinese outflows are aimed at Asia, however. Nor 
are outflows coming only from China. In fact, perhaps the 
most impressive aspect of Asian capital movements is their 
diversity—in terms of different types of investors, different 
source countries across Asia, and different destinations that 
are targeted. 
For the first time, large amounts of capital are heading to 
Western markets. According to Real Capital Analytics (RCA), 
Asian capital flowing into U.S. and European commercial real 
estate totaled US$12.3 billion in the first half of 2013—almost 
as much as for the whole of 2012. Most capital originated from 
China, South Korea, Singapore, and Hong Kong and is gener -
ally targeted at core assets in tier-one destinations, with the 
U.K. and gateway U.S. cities currently the most popular. 
Institutional Money Pours Out
As impressive as this is, there is more to follow. So far, the 
most active Asian institutional investors have been China’s 
sovereign wealth funds and large state-owned enterprises, 
Singaporean sovereign wealth funds, and South Korean insti -
tutional players—all of which continue to raise allocations for 
real estate investment. A survey of South Korean institutions in EXHIBIT 2-4
Change in Availability of Capital for Real Estate  
in 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.Public-equity REITsPrivate equity/opportunity/
hedge fundsPrivate local investorsInstitutional investors/
pension fundsForeign investors
Securitized lenders/
CMBSCommercial banksNonbank ﬁnancial
institutionsMezzanine lendersEquity capital source
Debt capital source
1
Very large
decline5
Stay the same9
Very large
increase5.75
5.725.595.415.29
5.50
5.47
5.44
4.99
26
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014mid-2013, for example, found a likely further increase of 2 to 
5 percent to global real estate allocations, equating to some 
US$10 billion to US$25 billion over the next two years. 
There also are several huge institutional players in Asia 
that have yet to even begin investing abroad in significant vol -
umes. Chinese insurers, for instance, which at the end of 2012 
held some US$1.2 trillion in assets, have a mandate under 
Chinese law to invest as much as 15 percent of these funds 
(or about US$180 billion) in non-self-use real estate located either inside or outside China. In terms of international invest -
ment, the first insurance company purchase took place only in 
July 2013 (in London). It is expected to be the first of many. 
Just how much capital is heading abroad remains an open 
question. CBRE has forecasted that Chinese insurers will buy 
a total of US$14.4 billion in international real estate, while a 
projection by Jones Lang LaSalle estimated US$5 billion by 
the end of 2013, and US$25 billion to US$30 billion by 2030. 
In addition, Australia’s superannuation funds, which have 
assets under management of about US$1.2 trillion, are once 
again considering international investments. The industry is 
still licking its wounds from the failure of huge bets made in 
Western markets in the run-up to 2007, but as one investor 
observed, “In the long term, they have to go abroad—there 
just isn’t enough product in Australia because there’s only 
23 million people.” As a result, the superannuation funds 
are expected to allocate some US$7.1 billion to offshore real 
estate investments over the next few years, according to 
Jones Lang LaSalle. Favored destinations are Europe and the 
United States, although some capital may find its way to Asian 
markets, too.
Finally, Japan’s US$1.2 trillion Government Pension 
Investment Fund (GPIF), the world’s biggest, may also be 
forced to diversify its portfolio away from Japanese govern -
ment bonds (JGBs). A typical allocation to real estate of 5 to 
10 percent would result in some US$120 billion in capital, a 
significant portion of which would have to be sent out of the 
country in order to avoid distorting domestic markets—a con -
cern the GPIF has already voiced.
EXHIBIT 2-6
Cross-Border Acquisitions by Asia-Based Investors in Europe and the Americas
Source: Real Capital Analytics, www.rcanalytics.com.
* First half. 
Total (billions)
US$0US$3US$6US$9US$12US$15
Total (billions)
US$0US$3US$6US$9US$12US$15
Others
Italy
Brazil
France
GermanyUnited StatesUnited Kingdom
2013* 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008By country target
SE AsiaIndiaTaiwanJapanHong Kong
 Singapore 
South KoreaChina 
2013* 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008By capital sourceEXHIBIT 2-5
Regions Targeted in the Next 12 Months by Private 
Real Estate Investors by Investor Location
Source: Preqin Ltd. Preqin Investor Outlook: Alternative Assets, H2 2013 .Asia-based investorsEurope-based investorsNorth America–based investors
AsiaEuropeNorth
America
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
27
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 2:  Real Estate Capital FlowsPut together, the collective spending power of Asia’s 
investment funds is likely to make them the dominant global 
force in institutional investing in coming years. That said, how -
ever, investment opportunities in Western markets are starting 
to get thin on the ground, as more capital from across the 
globe is now targeting assets in Western gateway cities. As a 
result, investors there are having to move up the risk curve or 
migrate to secondary markets, just as they are in Asia.
Sovereign Money Pours In
Sovereign and institutional money is not only flowing from 
Asian countries outward, but also arriving in growing volumes 
from the outside. Several such funds, especially from the 
Middle East, have set up offices in Asia with the intention of 
forgoing the traditional blind-pool model and investing directly. 
Setting up a team and learning the ropes of the local mar -
kets from scratch, however, can prove tricky, and quite often 
these funds are opting to co-invest alongside private-equity 
money. There are various reasons for this. As one manager at 
a large private equity fund in Hong Kong said, “Opportunities 
for co-investing with sovereign money is certainly something 
that comes up, both because it allows them to build their 
direct investment expertise, and also because it allows them 
to dollar-cost-average the fees.” In addition, “although they 
can write very large tickets, they often lack the internal band -
width to manage and underwrite risk properly. And then, even 
if they do have those skills, they sometimes as an institution 
lack the ability to move fast enough to execute opportunities 
when they come across their desks.”In addition, problems in sourcing traditional core-type 
investments in Asia’s cap rate–compressed markets are now 
encouraging institutional funds to take a more adventurous 
approach, participating in both development and opportunis -
tic deals. More of the same can be expected as institutional 
players grow familiar with Asian real estate investments. For 
example, South Korean funds, which have been active inter -
nationally for several years, are now more open to investing in 
junior debt and even value-add plays. Other funds are likely to 
tread the same path in future.EXHIBIT 2-7
Estimated Size of Institutional-Grade Real Estate, by Country/Territory 
Source: Nomura Research Institute Ltd., Asia Real Estate Investment Market 2013 .US$0US$500US$1,000US$1,500US$2,000US$2,500US$3,000Total (billions)
Vietnam Philippines New
ZealandMalaysia Thailand Indonesia Taiwan Hong
KongSingapore India South
KoreaAustralia China Japan
EXHIBIT 2-8
Sovereign Wealth Funds Investing in Real Estate 
by Regional Location
Source: 2014 Preqin Sovereign Wealth Fund Review.
Note: MENA: Middle East and North Africa.
Latin America 
& Caribbean 5%Africa (excl. MENA) 5%Australia 5% Europe 7%North America 19%
MENA
28%
Asia Paciﬁc 33%
28
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Tokyo Draws the Crowds 
While the big three real estate investment destinations in 
Asia—Japan, China, and Australia—remain the same as in 
previous years, the biggest change in terms of the volume of 
incoming flows has been in Japan, which reemerged this year 
as an investor favorite. 
With a yield spread of about 500 basis points over funding 
costs, cash-on-cash yields have long been a big draw for 
Japan, but the real difference in 2013, and one that explains 
why it has risen to the top of this year’s investment prospect 
ranking survey (from 13th last year), is the introduction of a 
vast program of government stimulus known as “Abenomics” 
(after Japan’s current prime minister, Shinzo Abe). Abenomics 
aims specifically to reverse two decades of economic decline 
by creating conditions that will reintroduce inflation into the 
economy (including real estate). The real breakthrough in 
Abenomics is the realization that without inflation, the country 
will eventually be swamped by the remorseless rise in govern -
ment debt. 
Asset-value inflation is a sure draw for real estate investors. 
As a result of Abenomics, therefore, in the second quarter of 
2013, investment in commercial real estate in Tokyo rose 78 
percent year on year to US$10.2 billion, according to brokers 
Jones Lang LaSalle. Although only about 15 percent of this 
was attributable to foreign buyers, there has been a significant 
increase in international fund allocations to Japan. With little 
sign of weakening sentiment, the flows are likely to continue. 
“Abenomics is producing a feel-good factor that is starting 
slowly to translate into demand,” said one investor. “A lot of the 
new stock that’s been overhanging the market over the last 
couple of years is filling up, and a lot of oversupply has slowly 
been taken up by consolidation at low rents.”
Investors have been projecting a bottoming of rentals in 
Tokyo for at least the last three years, and although opin -ions differ as to whether rent declines have in fact reversed, 
most interviewees report some 50 to 100 basis points of cap 
rate compression in Japan during 2013 as a result of rising 
capital values. There also is a general expectation that rising 
rents will create further cap rate compression in 2014. As a 
result, according to one investor, “people have a spring in 
their step, more people are looking around, sellers are more 
willing to sell.” Another said, “Everything is going out to a bid, 
to some type of competition, and rightfully so—I was a seller, 
no question. So it’s more competitive, but transaction volumes 
are up.” 
While the easing policies have so far met their short-term 
goals of depreciating the yen and boosting capital-market 
asset values, the big question in the long term is whether the 
solution to Japan’s already enormous public sector deficit 
really lies in creating so much new debt that it doubles the 
nation’s existing monetary base. Debate on this topic rages, 
but, in the words of one interviewee, “The one thing that is 
certain is that they were in an untenable situation that was 
simply getting worse—without growth in the economy, they 
are heading toward catastrophe. It’s a bit like the pirates in 
Never Never Land—your really, really believing you can fly 
doesn’t mean that you can, but if you don’t believe it you 
certainly won’t.” Meanwhile, the consensus among most real 
estate investors (with a vocal minority of dissenters) seems 
to be that the music will continue at least over the likely life 
span of their investments. As one fund manager said, “I don’t 
think I would be long Japan over ten years, but our investment 
horizon is four or five years, which I think will be okay as long 
as we hedge.” 
Currency Risk Rises
The extra layer of risk that investors must assume when buy -
ing assets internationally was underscored in 2013 as the EXHIBIT 2-9
Largest Sovereign Funds by Assets
Country/territory Fund name Assets  
(US$ billions)* Inception
Norway Government Pension Fund–Global  803.90 1990
Saudi Arabia SAMA Foreign Holdings 675.90 N.A.
U.A.E.–Abu Dhabi Abu Dhabi Investment Authority 627.0 0 1976
China China Investment Corporation 575.20 2007
China SAFE Investment Company 567.9 0** 1997
Kuwait Kuwait Investment Authority 386.00 1953
China–Hong Kong Hong Kong Monetary Authority Investment Portfolio 326.70 1993
Singapore Government of Singapore Investment Corporation 285.00 1981
Singapore Temasek Holdings 173.30 1974
China National Social Security Fund 160.60 2000
Source: Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.
Notes: * Data as of November 2013. ** Best-guess estimate. N.A. = not available.
29
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 2:  Real Estate Capital Flowsmarkets saw big swings in regional currencies in response 
to the evolving monetary policies in the United States and 
Japan. The Japanese yen declined about 22 percent in 
the year following the inception of a massive new round of 
monetary easing in April 2013. The Australian dollar fell almost 
20 percent earlier in the year before a rebound cut losses 
by about half by late October. The most extreme example, 
though, was India, where the rupee collapsed by some 25 
percent in less than four months beginning in May 2013, 
although it has since retraced about 10 percent of this.
Perhaps surprisingly, given the extreme nature of some of 
these swings, most interviewees (though not those in India) 
seemed relatively unconcerned about the impact of currency 
movements, even though in some markets the recent volatil -
ity will have wiped out several years’ worth of gains for those 
already invested. To some extent, this is because Asian cur -
rencies have been falling, “so when it weakens, you feel more 
comfortable coming in,” as one investor pointed out.
Currency movements can be hedged, of course, although 
Japan appears to be the only regional market where hedging 
is either affordable or actively sought. In Australia, far fewer 
investors have pursued hedging strategies. One reason may 
be that incoming investors tend to be big sovereign or institu -
tional players who take a portfolio approach to risk, “so they 
are diversified in a number of countries and if they get a hit in 
one, they get a pickup in another.” It is noteworthy, however, 
that the Australian government is either anticipating or promot -
ing further devaluation in the Australian dollar—a fact noted by 
Australian central bank governor Glenn Stevens in a speech 
in October, who said, “It seems quite likely that at some point 
in the future the Australian dollar will be materially lower than it 
is today.”
In India, meanwhile, hedging costs are so high that “your 
net return after hedging is usually the same as that after the 
disaster scenario,” making hedging pointless. This is one 
reason that investors looking at India must take a deep breath 
before taking the plunge. As one fund manager put it, “If you 
look at the forward curve when you’re at 62 [rupees to the 
dollar], that takes you out to 80. So you’re thinking: should I be 
hedging, in which case the net returns are anemic for the risk, 
or do I go naked? Still, you feel a lot more comfortable going 
naked when the rupee’s at 62 than when it was at 42.”
On the plus side, currency declines translate into lower 
real occupancy costs for international tenants, helping to 
boost service industries in countries that provide outsourced 
services, such as India and the Philippines. 
Fundraising Still Tough
Although the second half of 2013 saw a number of high-profile 
capital-raising announcements for Asia-based funds, the 
environment for most of those trying to attract new capital 
remains subdued. Funds are spending more time on the road 
trying to raise capital and many are coming up short of their targets. “It’s coming back a little bit, but it’s not roaring back,” 
as one fund manager put it. Although local funds raising local 
capital seem to be thriving, as evidenced by a poll published 
in the third quarter of 2013 by data provider Preqin in which 71 
percent of Asian institutions stated that they intended to invest 
in direct real estate assets over the next 12 months, compared 
with just 35 percent in North America and 24 percent  
in Europe. 
To a great extent, the prospects of success for raising new 
capital depend on the type and history of the fund. As one 
fund manager said, “We’re at an inflection point because, on 
the one hand, you have the old guard that has trouble given 
their track record, and on the other you have the first-time 
funds in Asia, which have no track record, and they’re also 
having trouble.” As another manager observed, “Very specific 
targeted [funds] with a narrow investment focus will tend to 
do well because there will always be clients looking for niche 
strategies or regional-specific teams. And then there will be a 
number of global funds that also will be successful because 
they have a lot of experience and a proven track record. But 
I think the folks in the middle will have a very difficult time dif -
ferentiating themselves.” 
One recent change that may help boost funds with estab -
lished bases in Asia is that there are now fewer newly arrived 
institutional investors looking to set up their own offices. This 
became a trend a few years ago, in particular among institu -
tions that had suffered losses on capital invested in blind-pool 
funds. As one Hong Kong–based fund manager said, “That 
is definitely what we are seeing, and there are some specific 
examples—I know two or three scenarios where funds came 
to Asia, set up teams of 50 people, and now they’re down to 
five because they said it just didn’t work.” 
EXHIBIT 2-10
Investor Intentions for Private Real Estate 
Investments in the Next 12 Months, by Investor 
Location
Source: Preqin Ltd., Preqin Investor Outlook: Alternative Assets, H2 2013 .0%20%40%60%80%100%Unlikely to make 
new commitments
Undecided
Likely to make new 
commitments
Asia Europe North America56%
9%
35%61%
15%
24%6%
23%
71%
30
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Another fund manager said, “It’s purely a reflection that 
managing real estate is a very local game, and if you’re a U.S. 
pension fund or corporate plan, you’ve probably got three or 
five people maximum, even for large-scale plans. Therefore, 
you can’t afford to have people on the ground in these na-
tional markets—you have to rely on partners, operators like 
ourselves.” While there are still some very large funds—often 
falling into the sovereign wealth category—that have the 
depth of human and financial resources to adopt this strategy, 
“I think on the whole the capital flow to Asia for funds will gain 
momentum pretty strongly from here on, notwithstanding the 
operating environment is a bit uncertain.”
Bank Doors Wide Open
Compared with those in the United States and Europe, credit 
markets in Asia have long been dominated by the banking 
sector. There are a few foreign life insurers with offices in 
Japan that are running loan books. And in Australia, a niche 
has developed for certain asset managers also to offer credit. 
In addition, there is talk of the superannuation industry looking 
to develop loan portfolios as an alternate channel into the 
market. But in most places, banks remain effectively the only 
game in town, and that seems unlikely to change. 
Over the last several years, bank funding for real estate 
deals has been readily available in most major markets, bar 
China and India, and that has remained the case in 2013. 
The question for the future is: How will a higher-interest-rate 
environment affect the way deals get financed? The obvious 
answer is that debt will become more expensive, but that is 
only one aspect. One fund manager asked, “Will there be 
as much liquidity in the debt market? Will banks still have 
appetite to grow their loan books for real estate? What kinds 
of spreads are going to be charged? And are they still ‘real 
estate–on’?” So far, there has been some talk of Asian banks 
tightening standards for commercial lending and increasing 
their rates on longer-term loans. But interviewees reported 
few or no signs of pressure on shorter-term rates. In fact, if 
anything, the environment in 2013 has been more accommo -
dating than in previous years.In Japan, for example, where funding has historically been 
cheap, the credit markets are “unbelievable.” Finance is com -
monly available at little more than 100 basis points depending 
on the asset, and “people are still seeing spreads coming 
down.” Loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, meanwhile, are creeping 
up. Some opportunistic investors reported getting 80 to 85 
percent leverage, and in a handful of seller-financed deals, 
LTVs exceeding 90 percent have been seen.
Another sign of easy credit is that banks are willing to offer 
cheap fixed-rate terms. In Tokyo, according to one inves -
tor, “we’re seeing fixed-rate financing becoming the norm. 
Before, there were a couple of life companies doing it using 
their general account, but now we’re starting to see Japanese 
megabanks offering five- and seven-year fixed-rate financ -
ing. People want to get locked in for obvious reasons. We’re 
doing ten-year fixed-rate financing on our deals at about 1.5 to EXHIBIT 2-12
Outstanding Real Estate Debt, by Lender Type, 
2013  
Source: DTZ Research.0%20%40%60%80%100%
Covered bonds
CMBS
Nonbanks
Banks
Asia Paciﬁc Europe North America
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey. Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 2-11
Equity Underwriting Standards ForecastEXHIBIT 2-13
Debt Underwriting Standards Forecast+43++41++16+46++36++18
43.1%
More rigorous40.5%
Will remain the same16.4%
Less rigorous45.6%
More rigorous36.0%
Will remain the same18.4%
Less rigorous
31
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 2:  Real Estate Capital Flows1.7 percent. For five-year fixed-rate money, you can get in at 
about 110 to 120 basis points all in.” Investors in other parts of 
Asia also are tapping fixed-rate credit where available. 
Outside Japan, lending terms may not be quite as accom -
modating, but credit is still easily available. In Australia, where 
banks have been less enthusiastic about real estate invest -
ments ever since the global financial crisis, the environment 
changed significantly in 2013 after top-tier REITs diversified 
their borrowing sources by seeking alternative financing in the 
United States and Europe. The resulting drop in demand for 
credit meant that domestic banks had problems filling their 
loan books, and they are now more open to providing loans. 
Nonetheless, one interviewee said that “they’re still pretty con -
servative over here, so they’ll lend against good covenants, 
but if you haven’t got a good covenant, it’s pretty hard.” And 
another investor commented, “The banks in Australia are 
very keen to put money out now, but at the same time they 
don’t get too racy on the terms—so if you have a high-quality 
cash flow situation, you get a lot of attention from banks. 
But if you’re talking about doing 80 percent LTV develop -
ment financing, that’s not what they’re looking for.” Australian 
developers, therefore, must often source mezzanine funding 
to make up capital shortfalls. 
In China, the government established a bank credit em-  
bargo against developers in early 2011, which has created 
problems for all but the biggest players in borrowing for con-
struction and (especially) buying land. Conditions eased 
to some extent in 2013, however. As one consultant said, 
“They’re certainly more generous than they were in terms 
of construction loans—rates now are more competitive 
and clients we’ve been dealing with are now able to borrow 
significantly greater amounts at more beneficial terms. But 
it’s still very difficult to borrow for land, so this is where we have the gray market—the trusts and private equity. Nearly 
all our clients are now using the gray market to fund their land 
purchases.”
Leverage is still readily available. Interviewees reported 
LTVs of 55 to 65 percent in China, 50 to 55 percent in India, 
60 to 65 percent in Singapore, 50 percent in Australia, 50 to 
55 percent in South Korea, and 40 percent in Hong Kong (the 
one market where LTV share declined, basically at the behest 
of the government). 
Alternate Financing in China 
With mainland equity and bond markets still closed to Chinese 
developers, and with ongoing restrictions in raising capital 
from the banking sector, particularly for the purchase of land, 
some developers are seeking novel ways to fund deals. In the 
past, they did so via China’s trust industry. Trust companies 
would take funds from high-net-worth individuals or corpora -
tions and, acting as a go-between, invest them in real estate 
(and potentially other) assets. The problem was that these 
trusts were often marketed as risk-free wealth-management 
products (WMPs) by banks. Unsurprisingly, given banks’ 
otherwise low deposit rates, interest in such high-yielding 
plays was high, especially as consumers were laboring under 
the impression that the products enjoyed an implicit govern -
ment guarantee. The trust industry boomed, and assets under 
management reached over US$1.5 trillion as of mid-2013. 
Once a few trusts began to run into liquidity problems, how -
ever, the government stepped in to tighten the rules. Today, 
trust companies are subject to a creeping wave of restrictions, 
especially for real estate development.
At the same time, the government also loosened rules that 
had previously prevented securities companies from offering 
WMPs. As a result, responsibility for this type of real estate 
investment product has effectively been transferred, with the 
securities industry moving to establish what is the equivalent 
of private equity funds. These now operate on a basis similar 
to the trusts (but without the guarantee), and are often set up 
to cater to specific projects. In addition, they charge signifi -
cantly less. Said one interviewee, “The private equity funds 
that are being set up for real estate investments are probably 
lending at 8 to 10 percent.” That compares with rates of 15 
percent or more for loans from trust companies.
In addition, however, Chinese developers are raising 
finance in Hong Kong where they can. Some will borrow 
from local banks, which “are willing to take some exposure 
to land in China, depending on the pedigree of the borrower. 
They’re borrowing 50 percent of the land costs in Hong Kong 
at about 8 percent, and they’re borrowing for construction 
costs in China.” Money raised in Hong Kong is not necessar -
ily restricted to bank borrowing. As one Hong Kong–based 
fund manager said, “What some larger developers have done 
is to supplement onshore borrowing with offshore preferred 
instruments or convertible bonds. A lot of that debt is short-EXHIBIT 2-14
Maturing Loans: Preferred Strategy for Lenders 
by Mid-2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.
Extend without 
mortgage modiﬁcation8.5%Foreclose and dispose8.5%Sell to a third party
32.5%
Extend with mortgage modiﬁcation50.4%
32
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014term and has an average maturity of less than three years, so 
it will be interesting to see whether they’ll be able to roll it or 
[otherwise refinance] because a lot of it was issued at mid-7s 
to 11 percent or 12 percent—which is pretty expensive when 
you consider it’s post-tax money.”
Capital Markets
Aside from the REIT sector (see below), action in Asia’s equity 
capital markets (which for the most part means Hong Kong, 
Singapore, and Tokyo) remained subdued in 2013. Said one banker, “There’s not much appetite for share issues at 
the moment because most developers have been trading at 
below net asset value [NAV] and don’t fancy selling equity at 
those prices.”
One interesting development on the equity side, though, 
is that Chinese developers are now increasingly involved in 
back-door listings in Hong Kong through the purchase of 
smaller listed developers. At least seven such takeovers have 
taken place since early 2012. They allow Chinese develop -
ers to reduce financing costs by borrowing from local banks 
through the shell company. In addition, the new vehicle can 
also be used as an operating platform for projects based in 
other countries—a strategy also becoming common for large 
mainland developers.
Bond markets have seen more action than equities in 
2013. Until May, the market had continued in the same bullish 
fashion as in the previous year. One Hong Kong blue-chip 
developer, for example, was able to exploit buyer demand for 
yield by issuing perpetual bonds (i.e., with no maturity dates) 
without a step-up clause (allowing holders to hike the yield). 
Sentiment reversed sharply in May, however, after Western 
investors suddenly began repatriating capital in anticipa -
tion of tapering in the United States. As a result, after total 
issuance of US$81 billion in foreign-currency bonds in Asia 
during the first five months of the year, just US$7.5 billion was 
issued in June and July. Activity has rebounded in the second 
half, however, as the risk-on mood returned. This included a 
US$113 million issue of four-year investment-grade bonds in 
Singapore by a major Chinese developer at a coupon rate of 
3.275 percent. Although this was only the third time a Chinese 
developer had issued bonds in Singapore, it may prove a 
popular fundraising avenue for foreign-currency bond issues 
by mainland developers in the future, especially as they in-
crease activity in other Asian countries.
The high-yield market—which, for real estate purposes, is 
dominated in Asia by Chinese developers—has been even 
more volatile. A record-breaking year for bond issuance in 
2012 continued into the first half of 2013, with investors lining 
up to buy yield in an otherwise low-interest-rate environment. 
The window slammed shut in May once the prospect of 
tapering came into play, only to reopen when the U.S. Federal 
Reserve declined to tighten as expected in September. The 
resurgence in mainland residential property prices and trans -
actions during the year also helped rejuvenate the market in 
the second half. “Profit margins may be lower, but turnover is 
up,” said one Hong Kong–based banker. In one transaction, a 
large Chinese developer raised US$700 million in Hong Kong 
from a ten-year bond yielding just 7.25 percent in October.
Bond market windows tend to be especially volatile in 
Asia, so the roller coaster in sentiment can be expected to 
continue as investors digest the implications of an environ -
ment in which interest rates move inevitably back toward their 
norms. In the long term, bond prices seem almost certain to 
fall once interest rates rise. But for the moment, risk is on once EXHIBIT 2-15
Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Subindex 
(China Developers)
EXHIBIT 2-16
Hang Seng Properties Subindex (Hong Kong 
Developers)2,5003,0003,5004,000 Subindex
11/1/13 9/1/13 7/1/13 5/1/13 3/1/13 1/1/13 11/1/12 9/1/12 7/1/12 5/1/12 3/1/12 1/2/12
20,00025,00030,00035,000 Subindex
11/1/13 9/1/13 7/1/13 5/1/13 3/1/13 1/1/13 11/1/12 9/1/12 7/1/12 5/1/12 3/1/12 1/2/12Source: Bloomberg.
Source: Bloomberg.
33
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 2:  Real Estate Capital Flowsagain. How long this lasts is anyone’s guess, but according to 
one interviewee, “With tapering now in the offing, bonds will 
probably not be bid in the future, so this may be the window 
now to get bond issues away.”
REITs: Still Room to Run? 
If Asia’s REITs have been big winners in the past from various 
bouts of U.S. monetary easing, it seems inevitable that their 
shares face downside once stimulus is cut and U.S. and 
Asian bond prices start to fall. This is why, after rising steadily 
since the end of 2011, REIT prices in Singapore and Australia 
fell sharply in May 2013, when action by the Fed seemed 
imminent. From a pricing point of view, therefore, long-term 
prospects appear negative. But with REITs in Singapore cur -
rently yielding in the range of 6 to 7 percent, their potential as 
an earnings play (which, after all, is what they are meant to be) 
will only grow should share prices fall. Singapore
Apart from rate hikes, the big issue in Singapore, according to 
one REIT manager, is the sheer volume of REITs in the market. 
“There are about 24 REITs domiciled just in Singapore,” he 
said. “Not all of them have assets here, but the vast majority 
is just securitized real estate that’s put to the market under a 
REIT regime. Some are better than others, but it seems a bit 
overcrowded.”
What’s more, the initial public offering (IPO) pipeline is full: 
Singaporean REITs and business trusts had raised US$3.76 
billion in IPOs in the year to September 2013, with a further 
US$4 billion still to come by year-end. One result of this is that 
competition for investable assets in the city has risen, helping 
to drive up commercial property yields in a market where cap 
rates are already compressed. Another result is that prospec -
tive REITs need to be bigger in order to get listed: “Before, 
you could probably put in US$500 million, but now you have 
to have critical mass, close to or over US$1 billion in assets, to 
get it into the market. It’s saturated, so you have to differentiate 
yourself by size and manager and sponsor.” This means that 
funds seeking to use REITs as an exit strategy for their invest -
ments may have problems getting them listed.
Yet another result of Singapore’s crowded REIT market 
is that REITs are now looking abroad to buy assets, and in 
particular in places such as Japan, South Korea, and, to a 
lesser extent, China. As one fund manager said, “Now they’ve 
started going cross-border, and what’s fascinating is the 
yields they’ll buy at given the accretion.” With recently listed 
Singapore REITs making various cross-border purchases at 
compressed cap rates, the relative attraction of higher-yield -
ing assets in Southeast Asian markets such as the Philippines 
is obvious. “If you’re buying a [core] office portfolio there at 
8 to 9 percent, I’d rather bet I can sell that at 7 to 8 percent EXHIBIT 2-18
FTSE Singapore Real Estate Developers Subindex
500600700800900Subindex
11/1/13 9/1/13 7/1/13 5/1/13 3/1/13 1/1/13 11/1/12 9/1/12 7/1/12 5/1/12 3/1/12 1/2/12
Source: Bloomberg.EXHIBIT 2-17
Asia Pacific Investor Profile, 2012 vs. Q1 2013
Sources: RCA; Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management. 
Unknown
12.0%User/other 9.0%
Private 22.0%
Listed/REITs
21.0%  
Institutional 14.0%Cross-border22.0%2012
Unknown10.0%User/other 15.0%
Private 16.0%
Listed/REITs
36.0%  Institutional 9.0%Cross-border14.0%Q1 2013
34
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014versus selling a 4 percent [asset] from Hong Kong or Beijing 
or elsewhere. So that’s why you’re seeing cross-border, and 
we believe in that.”
Australia
In Australia, the REIT industry appears healthier than it has 
been for years. In practice, though, it faces various problems. 
One investor described the industry as “very inward-looking” 
and “too focused on managing costs, meaning they’re not 
able to respond quickly when new opportunities arise.” In 
addition, “they’re struggling to buy because they’ve been 
unable to raise capital.” Beyond that, they are often being 
outbid for assets because Asian institutional funds, which are 
competing for the same assets, often have lower hurdle rates. 
Finally, said one interviewee, “REITs haven’t really been active 
buyers because most of them are still trading at discounts to 
NAV, so it’s more beneficial for them to do share buybacks 
than to go and acquire assets.” As a result, some REITs have 
opted instead to participate at the development level, aiming 
in particular at core office or retail assets.
Japan 
Share prices of Japanese REITs (JREITs) were relative lag -
gards in 2012, experiencing far lower gains than REITs in 
Singapore and Australia. But after the introduction of the 
Abe government’s massive program of fiscal and monetary 
stimulus in October 2012, which includes a mandate for the 
government to buy even more JREIT stocks, the JREIT index 
soared, registering a one-year gain exceeding 40 percent. By 
the end of October, JREIT shares had risen to a premium over 
NAV and trading yields had been squeezed down to 3.6 per -
cent. Unsurprisingly, cashed-up JREITs have been “incredibly 
aggressive” buyers in the market during 2013. With real estate 
purchases of some US$16.25 billion, they accounted for 
almost 70 percent of Japanese commercial real estate trans -
actions in the first three quarters of the year, which explains 
why other buyers (especially foreign funds) have had so many 
problems finding investable stock. On top of that, JREITs are on course to absorb about US$13 billion in new capital from 
retail investors during the course of 2013.
Although JREITs’ performance in 2013 has been remark -
able, they still face several issues going forward. The most 
important of these are that the industry remains tiny relative to 
the size of Japan’s overall commercial real estate market and 
that JREITs are often conflicted, with too many close connec -
tions among JREITs, sponsors, and management companies. 
In addition, many JREITs are too small to be competitive. 
They need to be consolidated within their larger peers, but 
the draconian regulations relating to corporate mergers in 
Japan mean that there is little incentive to make this happen. 
A final problem is that with Japan’s office REITs now trading at 
sometimes very large premiums to NAV, they become more 
exposed to volatility in Tokyo’s office market. As one investor 
observed, “There’s so much new supply coming on line, but 
I just don’t see the demand because the financial sector is 
still laying people off. What’s going to happen to the sector if 
vacancies start to rise?”EXHIBIT 2-19
Capitalization and Dividend Yields of Asia REITs, Q2 2013
Number of REITsMarket cap  
(US$ billions)Average dividend 
yield Risk-free rate*Spread  
(basis points)
Japan 40  $65.5 3.9% 0.8%  301 
Singapore 28  $43.3 6.0% 2.5%  349 
Hong Kong 9  $22.1 4.5% 2.0%  250 
Malaysia 15  $8.1 4.3% 3.6%  67 
Korea 1  $0.0 10.8% 3.4%  740 
Total 93 $139.0 4.7%**
Source: Asia Pacific Prudential. 
* Risk-free rate refers to long-term government bond yields.
** Weighted average based on market cap.
EXHIBIT 2-20
Percent Change in Asia Pacific REIT Markets
-20%0%20%40%60%80%100%120%
Tokyo Stock Exchange 
REIT Index
S&P/ASX Australian REIT IndexFTSE Strait Times Singapore REIT Index
11/1/13 9/1/13 7/1/13 5/1/13 3/1/13 1/1/13 11/1/12 9/1/12 7/1/12 5/1/12 3/1/12
Source: Bloomberg.Change as a percentage of 3/1/12 values


37
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014The big theme reflected in this year’s Emerging Trends 
in Real Estate Asia Pacific  survey has been the return 
of Japan—by a fairly wide margin—as the region’s 
most popular investment destination for the first time since 
2009. Although there are very particular macro-reasons why 
Japan should return from the rankings wilderness to top the ULI survey once again, it perhaps comes as no great surprise 
that its return to popularity means that three of the top four 
places this year now belong to the Japan-China-Australia 
axis—a group that, in terms of the weight of capital, is gener -
ally regarded as the big three investment destinations in the 
region.chapter 3
Markets and Sectors  to Watch
“We are starting to spend time in Vietnam, Indonesia, 
Thailand —there’s not a lot of capital focused on them and you can 
maybe find opportunities in core sectors.”
EXHIBIT 3-1
City Investment Prospects, 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey. 1 Tokyo   6.30 
 2 Shanghai   5.87 
 3 Jakarta   5.76  
 4 Manila   5.66  
 5 Sydney   5.61  
 6 Guangzhou   5.60  
 7 Singapore  5.57 
 8 Beijing   5.54 
 9 Osaka  5.53 
 10 Shenzhen   5.52 
 11 Bangkok   5.45 
 12 China: secondary cities  5.43 
 13 Melbourne   5.39 
 14 Kuala Lumpur  5.34 
 15 Seoul  5.32 
 16 Taipei   5.31 
 17 Auckland   5.06 
 18 Hong Kong  5.03 
 19 Ho Chi Minh City  4.98 
 20 Bangalore  4.85 
 21 New Delhi  4.70  
 22 Chennai   4.67 
 23 Mumbai  4.65  generally good  fair  generally poor EXHIBIT 3-2
City Development Prospects, 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey. 1 Jakarta   5.97  
 2 Tokyo   5.82 
 3 Shenzhen   5.76  
 4 Shanghai   5.75  
 5 Guangzhou   5.73  
 6 Beijing   5.68  
 7 China: secondary cities  5.61  
 8 Manila   5.60  
 9 Singapore  5.57 
 10 Hong Kong  5.57 
 11 Sydney   5.54 
 12 Bangkok   5.54 
 13 Taipei   5.46 
 14 Kuala Lumpur  5.39 
 15 Seoul  5.34 
 16 Melbourne   5.10  
 17 Bangalore  5.00 
 18 Osaka  4.89 
 19 Auckland   4.87 
 20 Ho Chi Minh City  4.85 
 21 Chennai   4.75  
 22 New Delhi  4.42 
 23 Mumbai  4.24   generally good  fair  generally poor 
38
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Top Investment Cities
Tokyo (first in investment, second 
in development). In late 2012, Japan 
emerged as a magnet for real estate 
investors after the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe introduced the 
most far-reaching economic reforms 
seen in that country since the 1930s. 
The plan aims to end 15 years of 
deflation by massively expanding the 
national balance sheet, and has inves -
tors buying real estate in anticipation of 
rising prices. With the yen now nearly 
20 percent cheaper than it was a year 
ago, Tokyo’s appeal is obvious. As one 
consultant said, “When you have a gov -
ernment desperately trying to stimulate 
inflation and that likes handing money to 
the JREITs [Japanese real estate invest -
ment trusts] directly to allow them to go 
out and spend, then you’d expect there 
to be some positive movement.”
Transaction volume has picked up 
noticeably in 2013, with sales of office, 
warehouse, and retail space up 85 
percent to more than US$20 billion in 
the first half of the year—the biggest increase in five years. Although rents 
have so far remained static, prices have 
begun to move, with investors reporting 
50 to 100 basis points of cap rate com -
pression during the course of the year. 
The problem for most investors, though, 
is that the vast majority of core assets 
in Tokyo are being cornered by JREITs 
and other local institutions, leaving little 
for the rest. 
As a result, foreign funds are diver -
sifying by moving up the risk curve, 
looking for opportunities in second -
ary assets and sectors, and picking 
up smaller buildings with the intention 
of repositioning and selling them on. 
“We’re very bullish on Tokyo,” said one 
foreign developer, “particularly around 
refurbishing existing assets—focus -
ing on energy and sustainability and 
repositioning from a B to an A-grade.” In 
addition, a few deals have been struck EXHIBIT 3-3
Historical Investment Prospect Rankings
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific  2007–2014 surveys.
Note: — = no data.City 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Tokyo 1 13 16 12 7 1 3 3
Shanghai 2 2 2 2 1 5 1 2
Jakarta 3 1 11 14 17 20 20 19
Manila 4 12 18 20 20 19 19 18
Sydney 5 4 3 6 6 14 15 16
Guangzhou 6 15 6 8 12 16 9 7
Singapore 7 3 1 1 5 2 2 4
Beijing 8 7 5 7 3 12 6 9
Osaka 9 22 21 19 18 15 4 1
Shenzhen 10 16 — — — — — —
Bangkok 11 6 14 17 19 18 18 8
China: secondary 
cities12 8 — — — — — —
Melbourne 13 10 7 9 9 11 17 6
Kuala Lumpur 14 5 17 15 15 10 11 15
Seoul 15 14 19 16 4 6 7 13
Taipei 16 9 8 13 11 8 16 5
Auckland 17 17 20 18 16 17 14 —
Hong Kong 18 11 13 4 2 3 5 11
Ho Chi Minh City 19 18 10 11 13 13 8 12
Bangalore 20 19 9 10 14 4 12 10
New Delhi 21 21 12 5 10 9 13 14
Chennai 22 — — — — — — —
Mumbai 23 20 15 3 8 7 10 17Apart from this, the top trends to emerge from the survey 
include the following:
■■An ongoing willingness to look at emerging markets, and 
in particular Indonesia and the Philippines, as alternatives to 
other more traditionally favored markets. The reason? Cap rate 
compression continues to squeeze returns, and with higher 
interest rates seemingly just around the corner, investors are 
drifting to markets and asset classes that can provide the kind 
of returns they are unable to tap elsewhere. 
■■Osaka has again climbed the rankings after several years 
on or near the bottom rung. This is to some extent a reflec -
tion of the Japan story, but it also is a cyclical rebound as the 
market works off a glut of oversupply.
■■Indian cities remain in the doldrums this year as authori -
ties there try to work out various economic and governance 
issues.
■■The industrial/distribution sector once again tops the sur -
vey for both investment and development prospects—again 
reflecting a flight by investors toward less conventional asset 
classes. 
Leading buy/hold/sell ratings for various property types 
are as follows:
■■residential: buy, Manila; sell, Auckland
■■office: buy, Manila; sell, Auckland 
■■retail: buy, Manila; sell, Auckland
■■hotel: buy, Tokyo; sell, Auckland
■■industrial: buy, China secondary cities; sell, Auckland. 
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07TokyoInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.826.30
39
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to Watchat very high rates of leverage (i.e., more 
than 90 percent), reminiscent of the 
days before 2007. 
The big question, however, is 
whether “Abenomics”—a vast program 
of government stimulus named after 
Shinzo Abe, the current prime minister 
of Japan—can successfully reverse that 
country’s long economic decline. The 
jury remains out on that, and for as long 
as it does, the buying in Tokyo looks set 
to continue. 
Shanghai (second in investment, 
fourth in development). Shanghai is 
an evergreen for Asian investors. Ever 
since the Emerging Trends Asia Pacific  
survey began in 2007, the city has only 
once failed to make the top two in the 
investment prospects rankings, despite 
ongoing cap rate compression and 
stagnant rental growth. Interviewees 
reported net yields on commercial 
assets of just 2 to 3 percent in 2013, 
together with an increasingly tight reg-
ulatory environment. As one investor 
said, “There’s a lot of potential taxes you 
have to underwrite, but you’re not sure 
at the end of the day whether you actu -
ally have to pay them and how close to 
the wind you want to sail. The way the 
market’s going for completed assets, 
you might be buying at a 4 [percent] 
and then you’d be really lucky if you’re 
getting 1 percent yield actually out of 
the country.”
So what’s the attraction? Basically, 
for many international real estate 
investors—and, for that matter, many foreign companies operating in the 
mainland—Shanghai is China. As one 
foreign developer put it, “We draw a 
very clear distinction between the office 
space in Beijing and Shanghai and 
the office space everywhere else, and 
that’s because we serve the market for 
tenants who tend not to want to travel 
and set up the same kind of operations 
and space in some of the further-down 
cities. So we notice there’s a clear dis-
tinction between the type of demand in 
Beijing and Shanghai and [the type of 
demand] everywhere else.” 
Second, Shanghai offers a level of 
comfort to newly arrived funds with a 
mandate to place money in China, but 
who may be unwilling to venture deeper 
into the unknown. One such investor 
said, “If you’re local enough and you 
have sufficient boots on the ground, 
you’re able to intelligently pick the win -
ners from the losers. We’re not there 
yet, and as a result we need to focus on 
the cities that are definitely going to be 
winners.” Finally, according to a fund 
manager with long experience in China, 
“Office markets in the major cities, espe -
cially Shanghai, are going to see some 
periods of real supply and indigestion, 
where rates are going to flatten or even 
go down. But when you look at the fact 
that Shanghai is structurally under-
officed to a very high degree relative to 
other major financial centers, then the 
well-located assets—not even in the 
CBD [central business district], but also 
the central submarkets—should do well 
over time.” 
Jakarta (third in investment, first in 
development). Last year’s surprise win -
ner of the investment prospects survey, 
Jakarta garnered a third-place position 
this year that defied skeptics who wrote 
off last year’s performance as a “flash in 
the pan.” The city’s apparent popularity, 
however, is something of an enigma to 
experienced market-watchers in Asia, 
because it has always been a difficult 
market in which to operate. 
In a nutshell, the impression of 
Jakarta (and by extension Indonesia, 
for which it serves as a proxy) is that 
“the macro-story is compelling, but it’s difficult to execute.” On the one hand, 
capital values for prime offices continue 
to ramp up, with a 10 percent quarter-
on-quarter increase in the second 
quarter of 2013 alone, according to 
Jones Lang LaSalle. Rentals, mean -
while, grew 37 percent on the year—the 
highest increase in Asia. There are 
a number of reasons for this. Newly 
released office stock in Jakarta has 
been higher quality than that released 
in the past, and there continues to be 
strong demand, especially from recently 
arrived companies looking for space. In 
addition, there is a shortage of upcom -
ing supply in the CBD. Cap rates came 
in around 7.8 percent, and recent 
development yields are reputedly excel -
lent—both of which help explain why 
Jakarta continues to be the survey’s 
number-one choice as a development 
destination. 
At the same time, however, investors 
have been deterred by familiar issues. 
The local market is opaque, title is hard 
to establish, and competition from 
local companies and high-net-worth 
individuals is intense. The reality is that 
few foreign investors have been able 
to place money in the market success -
fully, although that hasn’t stopped them 
from looking. According to interviewees, 
some existing owners have been selling 
into that demand—at a price. 
One investor suggested that Jakarta 
and some other Southeast Asian emerg -
ing markets might prove attractive 
over the coming year because capital 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07JakartaDevelopment
prospects
Investmentprospects5.97
5.76
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07ShanghaiInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.755.87
40
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014outflows of the type seen in Asia in 2013 
were likely to have a disproportionate 
impact on those countries, which will 
in turn “tend to have a disproportionate 
impact on [real estate] pricing.”
Manila (fourth in investment, eighth 
in development). Manila has risen 
through the ranks this year, the result 
of a fast-growing economy, increasing 
popularity of the city as a destination 
for multinationals seeking outsourced 
services (both business process out -
sourcing [BPO] and back office), and a 
growing awareness that the problems 
long associated with lack of transpar -
ency and governance issues have 
improved. The country also benefits 
from a young demographic, strong 
capital inflows from local citizens work -
ing overseas, and a workforce with a 
cultural affinity with the West.
Prime office rents are still well below 
pre–global financial crisis rates, but are 
growing at 5 to 8 percent per year. Cap 
rates are between 9 and 10 percent. 
Office take-up hit 400,000 square 
meters last year, and with demand re-
maining high, almost all new buildings 
were prelet in advance. 
A lot of the recent action in Manila 
is focused on submarkets like Fort 
Bonafacio, which features vacancy rates 
of just 1 percent. Rents there have risen 
from 50 percent of downtown Makati a 
few years ago to 80 percent today. As 
one investor said, “My bet is that within 
three to five years, rents in the suburbs 
will exceed downtown rents, the reason being that downtown always floods and 
the suburbs don’t.” 
As with the other emerging markets, 
Manila can be a hard place in which 
to invest, partly because of laws that 
prevent foreigners from majority owner -
ship of land and partly because there 
is already plenty of domestic liquidity. 
Core product is therefore difficult to find, 
but on the opportunistic level a yield 
spread of 350 to 400 basis points can 
provide operating cash flow returns in 
the mid-teens. 
Sydney (fifth in investment, 11th 
in development). Following rental 
declines during the first half of 2013, 
the fundamentals of Australia’s office 
and retail sectors remain “pretty weak.” 
Investors have concerns on a number 
of fronts, in particular the prospects 
for the financial and mining sectors, 
the prospects for consumer spending, 
and—for overseas investors, at least—
the political outlook (although this may 
have been resolved to some extent with 
the outcome of the federal election in 
September). Nonetheless, Sydney con -
tinues to attract both foreign institutional 
and local investors. 
As in previous years, the appeal 
for foreigners has been high (by Asian 
standards) cap rates of around 7 to 9 
percent, Australia’s mature and stable 
market, and a general expectation that 
yields will compress going forward. 
Local investors have not been as bullish 
as foreign funds in the last few years, 
but have also started to invest more in 2013, as superannuation funds put large 
cash stockpiles to work and local REITs 
begin to recycle capital.
One result of this is that the core 
CBD office market in Sydney is now 
“very tight,” with many investors mov -
ing instead into suburban markets and 
secondary assets in order to place 
funds. An influx of Asian (and especially 
Chinese) capital has also been actively 
pursuing these opportunities. Industrial 
assets, meanwhile, which were popu -
lar in 2012, have lost their luster more 
recently.
However, with most banks having 
completed their rationalizations and a 
limited pipeline of new supply until 2016, 
investors remain fairly bullish about 
prospects for the city’s office sector. 
The residential sector, meanwhile, has 
rebounded, and although affordability 
continues to be an issue, “the reality is 
that the demand is there,” helped by a 
significant quantity of new capital arriv -
ing into the high end of the market from 
pan-Asian (once again, mainly Chinese) 
buyers: “We’re seeing record weekend 
auction clearance rates and prices 
starting to go up—any release of land or 
residential apartments just gets sold out 
immediately.”
Guangzhou (sixth in investment, fifth 
in development). Guangzhou’s high 
ranking this year comes as a surprise 
given the extent to which China’s Pearl 
River Delta cities are exposed to the 
relatively weak export sector. While the 
retail market “looks pretty good from 
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Manila
Investment
prospectsDevelopment
prospects
5.605.66
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07SydneyInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.545.61
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07GuangzhouInvestment prospectsDevelopment prospects
5.73
5.60
41
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to Watchwhere we’re sitting,” the city’s office mar -
ket is “terribly oversupplied,” with the 
volume of new stock exceeding take-up 
in each of the last three years. Office 
vacancies increased by 4 percentage 
points quarter on quarter in the second 
quarter of 2013 to 15 percent, according 
to Jones Lang LaSalle. Rental growth 
remains anemic. At the same time, capi -
tal prices have risen almost 50 percent 
since 2009, with cap rates compressing 
to a record low of 3.8 percent. Sales 
remain brisk. This is perhaps a result of 
the city catching up with price increases 
in Beijing and Shanghai, where com -
mercial property remains considerably 
more expensive. 
On the residential side, prices have 
more than doubled since 2008, and 
were up 20 percent year on year in the 
third quarter alone, according to official 
statistics. This can be at least partly 
attributed to the fact that, even though 
Guangzhou’s status as one of China’s 
first economic hubs means it is relatively 
well off, its home prices have always 
lagged relative to those of other first-tier 
cities (and especially those in nearby 
Shenzhen, where they are almost twice 
as high). Local authorities have inter -
vened repeatedly in the past to head 
off an overheated residential market in 
Guangzhou, and the prospects for more 
of the same in future seem high. 
In the hotel sector, “again you’re see -
ing a picture of huge oversupply at the 
luxury end, with huge downward rate 
pressure as a result,” according to one 
developer active in the city. “The ques -
tion in my mind is what’s happening to 
demand—we look at the Canton Fair as 
a proxy for that, and the last year or so 
has been soft. That may be reflective of 
the global economic picture—I hope it 
is, because that means it will recover.”
Singapore (seventh in investment, 
ninth in development). The appeal of 
Singapore has weakened over the last 
year, which explains the retreat from 
its normal ranking in the survey’s top 
three. But investor opinions remain quite 
polarized. Some saw an oversupplied 
market featuring excess liquidity from 
Singapore’s growing REIT sector that has driven prices higher and com -
pressed cap rates to levels that will be 
unsustainable once interest rates rise 
beyond the current 2 percent. As one 
locally based fund manager said, “If you 
look at your yield, it’s all leverage-based. 
But even if cap rates don’t compress 
from 3.5 to 3 percent, the guy buying 
this five years from now is buying it with 
4 percent money, not 2 percent money. 
We have to put ourselves in the shoes of 
people buying five years from now—and 
people just aren’t doing that.”
Others, however, see it differently. 
As another locally based fund manager 
said, “People continually misunder -
stand Singapore; it’s one of the jewels in 
Asia. Its growth outlook is strong, given 
its political and social infrastructure. 
Everyone’s all excited about the amount 
of supply coming in—but again, apart 
from one tower, the next new building is 
more than 13 months away. Over the last 
quarter, rents have increased. And if the 
government does [its] typical put-your-
foot-on-the-accelerator and possibly 
recommence land sales, by the time 
those buildings would be completed 
would be another four years away.” 
For the moment, vacancies have 
declined to around 6 percent as new 
supply drops off, while increasing 
demand for small-office space has 
been generated by the professional 
services sector. Sales of strata-title 
office in the CBD were strong in the first 
half of the year, but have now dropped 
off as the government’s market-cooling 
regulations begin to take effect.Beijing (eighth in investment, sixth 
in development). Although the retail 
market in Beijing remains strong, the 
city’s office sector has seen both prices 
and rents plateau since the beginning of 
2013, after three years of high growth. 
However, with vacancies low and a 
generally constrained pipeline, there 
seems to be little prospect of significant 
declines. As one consultant observed, 
“Beijing has some serious surpluses, 
particularly in terms of the office market. 
But people bandy around these large 
numbers in terms of square meters, 
and when you strip out the D, C, and B 
[grades], you get down to the real qual -
ity product, and that’s limited even in the 
first-tier cities.” 
Beyond that, said a Beijing-based 
developer, “I think a lot of state-owned 
enterprises that want a headquarters, 
or the large insurance companies that 
you see [investing] all over the world 
are looking to put some of their funds 
into domestic real estate. So I don’t see 
the situation in Beijing changing too 
dramatically.”
As with other Chinese cities, the 
appeal of Beijing as a development play 
is significantly higher than it is on the 
investment front—probably a reflection 
of high prices pushing investors toward 
more opportunistic development plays.
Osaka (ninth in investment, 18th in 
development). Osaka has languished 
at or near the bottom of the survey rank -
ings for several years but rebounded 
impressively in 2013, as predicted by 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07BeijingDevelopment prospects
Investment prospects5.68
5.54
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07SingaporeDevelopment
prospects
Investmentprospects5.575.57
42
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014investors in last year’s report. As one 
said, “I think things just got overheated 
on the office side, and there is still a 
supply issue. But they’ve been chipping 
away on that over the years, and rental 
rates that were inexorably going down 
have hopefully bottomed out. So I defi -
nitely think it’s an underwritable market if 
you find the right asset.” 
Cap rates for Osaka assets have 
come in from 6.5 to 5.5 percent over the 
course of 2013, and with expectations 
that more compression is to come, buy -
ers are still looking for deals, just as they 
are in Tokyo. The prospects for Japan’s 
regional cities such as Osaka have 
strengthened over the last year because 
of the spillover of investment capital out 
of Tokyo as investors seek less competi -
tion and lower prices. 
Another investor said, “They’ve 
done a really good job there revitalizing 
the economy. There’s now positive net 
migration because the government im-
proved the infrastructure, and the cost of 
doing business in Osaka is substantially 
cheaper than in Tokyo. So it’s a good 
story, especially residential and retail, 
though office is still a bit questionable 
because of the supply.” 
Shenzhen (tenth in investment, third 
in development). Shenzhen’s property 
markets are notoriously volatile. They 
have been relatively quiet in 2013, 
however, with little in the way of new 
supply or take-up. Shenzhen was one 
of the only markets in China to see 
(slight) office rental growth during the first half of 2013. The residential sector 
has similarly low levels of inventory, 
which helped support the market early 
in the year, and may help explain a 20 
percent–plus year-on-year rise in prices 
in the third quarter of the year. 
Shenzhen’s steep rise as a develop -
ment destination in this year’s survey 
(from 11th to fourth) was impressive. 
However, given a substantial pipeline 
of new stock due on the market in the 
next few years, it seems unlikely to be 
tied to the prospects of conventional 
property assets. Instead, the cause is 
probably the launch of the city’s new 
Qianhai experimental zone as a pilot 
financial and tax-free area. Although 
plans call for the development of some 
4 million square meters of gross floor 
area (GFA) in Qianhai, at the moment it 
remains mostly a blank page. Over time, 
it is expected to draw business from 
companies currently based in Hong 
Kong, as well as from other companies 
in southern China. Real estate prices 
in areas near the zone mushroomed 
immediately following the launch as 
investors from nearby Hong Kong and 
Guangzhou bet the new “Manhattan of 
the Pearl River Delta” would provide a 
boost to Shenzhen’s property market. 
Whether it is able to fulfill those expecta -
tions remains to be seen.Bangkok (11th in investment, 12th in 
development). Bangkok was men -
tioned more frequently in this year’s 
interviews than previously, with investors 
seeing it as a relatively less competi -
tive, higher-return market than Asia’s 
more conventional destinations. As one 
investor described it, “There’s not a lot 
of capital focused there, and you could 
maybe find some good opportunities 
in the core property sectors. There’s 
obviously a lot of risk with that, but there 
could be attractive opportunities, too.” 
Prices and rentals continue to rise in 
Bangkok’s prime office space, although 
there remains very little investable stock. 
Vacancies have also been trending 
down for the last three years. 
Still, Thailand has always been 
regarded as a hard market for foreign -
ers to exploit. One investor said, “It’s just 
difficult to get things to move quickly 
there—there are a lot of wheels within 
wheels and restrictions on foreign own -
ership that are a lot more draconian and 
hard to navigate compared to Indonesia 
and the Philippines.” 
Foreign investors tend to prefer the 
resort markets on Thailand’s beaches to 
Bangkok’s commercial real estate. They 
require a different set of management 
skills that international funds may find 
easier to exploit, “although a lot of these 
markets are suffering from some level 
of overbuilding,” as one investor with 
experience in the sector observed. 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07OsakaInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
4.895.53
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Bangkok
Investment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.54
5.45
012345678InvestmentDevelopment
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Shenzhen5.525.76Note: Shenzhen is included 
for the second time in 2014.
43
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to WatchChina – secondary cities (12th in 
investment, seventh in development). 
In the past, investors saw the second-
tier cities of China as a refuge from its 
overcrowded, arguably overpriced first-
tier cities. As more investors began to tip 
their toes in those waters, however, the 
extra risks and operational difficulties 
inherent in these locations have made 
some of them rethink their investment 
choices. Although each city has its own 
economic microclimate, oversupply 
is now a real issue in China’s second -
ary markets. As one foreign developer 
said, “There’s quite a lot of oversupply 
in Chengdu, for example, but it’s hard 
to generalize because that oversupply 
might be in certain pockets, so it’s dan -
gerous to say, ‘Let’s avoid somewhere 
like Chengdu.’ If you’ve got the right 
location in that city, you should be fine 
as long as you do all the things that you 
normally do well.” As another developer 
pointed out, location is vital: “If you can 
get that, it’s actually the key—but it’s still 
not easy to get land.”
At the same time, though, returns 
are higher in these locations, and over 
the long term many secondary cities 
will see structural changes that should 
lead to higher growth than in the first 
tier, where future rises in value have to a 
great extent already been discounted. 
As one investor put it, “You’re seeing it 
in terms of the migrant labor issue, for 
example. Before, Sichuan labor would 
migrate to the big cities on the coast, 
but now they’re deciding to stay closer to home. The effect on the coastal cities 
is that labor rates are driven up, and that 
some of the demand is then transferring 
back to the home market—Sichuan, in 
this case.”
Melbourne (13th in investment, 16th 
in development). As with Sydney, 
the fundamentals of the Melbourne 
market have been sliding recently. Net 
absorption was negative in 2013, and 
rents have been falling for the last two 
years. Substantial new amounts of stock 
remain in the pipeline, particularly in the 
redeveloped Docklands area. 
As with Sydney, however, poor 
fundamentals have not prevented prices 
from rising as foreign institutions and 
local funds compete for a shrinking 
number of assets. As one interviewee 
said, “There have been a fair few trans -
actions recently in Melbourne, and the 
thing that’s been a little surprising is how 
tight the cap rates have been for those 
transactions.” 
As with other Asian markets, lack 
of available product has led investors 
to turn to other solutions. First, well-
located B-grade buildings just outside 
central Melbourne, or perhaps in the 
suburbs, have become increasingly 
popular. Second, more investors are 
willing to take development risk, despite 
the general oversupply: “A number 
of people are seeing a lot of value in 
developing assets in the more traditional 
parts of Melbourne along Collins Street, 
because they don’t like the Docklands 
area, where transport access is not very good.” Going forward, the sup -
ply/demand dynamics continue to be 
unfavorable on the rental side. But with 
no end in sight to the flow of foreign 
investors looking to park money in prime 
Australian assets, cap rates could con -
tinue to come under pressure anyway. 
Kuala Lumpur (14th in invest -
ment, 14th in development). Kuala 
Lumpur has moved sharply down in 
the investment prospects ranking list 
this year (from last year’s fifth position), 
mainly as a result of a glut of supply. 
Office vacancies now stand at almost 
18 percent, though this is down from 
more than 20 percent in 2012. Retail 
is similarly overbuilt, especially in the 
suburbs, where much existing stock 
is old and poorly designed. Capital 
values in Kuala Lumpur’s CBD are now 
about 25 to 30 percent off their 2008 
peaks. Because much existing stock in 
that area has become dated, cap rates 
have expanded from about 5.5 percent 
in 2008 to a current level of 6.5 to 7.0 
percent. This is becoming attractive 
territory for sale to an offshore institution 
such as a Singaporean REIT. 
Although on the positive side, while 
there is now less supply in the pipeline, 
there has been a speculative element to 
recent construction activity, especially 
in high-end residential projects. As one 
fund manager said, “We did residential 
in the last cycle. That has done okay, 
but today you have developers that 
have overbuilt and have too much inven -
tory.” And another said, “The residential 012345678
5.61
5.43
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07China – secondary citiesDevelopment prospects
Investmen t prospectsNote: China – secondary cities is 
included for the second time in 2014.
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07MelbourneInvestment
prospectsDevelopment
prospects
5.105.39
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Kuala
LumpurInvestmentprospects
Developmentprospects5.395.34
44
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014sector, though not in the major areas, 
has been overbuilt. Last time I went to 
Kuala Lumpur, you see those residential 
buildings, empty blocks after blocks—
they are selling those to investors.”
One advantage of Kuala Lumpur 
is that “unlike Singapore, the market is 
quite soft—there are not a lot of inter -
national players; they’re all domestic.” 
At the same time, the Iskander Special 
Economic Zone (and in particular 
the city of Johor Bahru) in southern 
Malaysia near the Singaporean border 
has become a favored destination for 
pan-Asian investors and especially 
Chinese developers, who have been 
active in residential development. The 
market in Johor Bahru is also now seen 
as frothy. Much of the stock being cre -
ated there has been presold to mainland 
Chinese and other Asian buyers. 
Local Malaysian REITs, meanwhile, 
continue to trade at high prices in 2013, 
mainly, according to one fund manager, 
because “there’s nowhere else to place 
your local currency.”
Seoul (15th in investment, 15th in 
development). Several interviewees in 
this year’s report indicated interest in the 
South Korean market but, as in previ -
ous years, have had problems getting 
capital invested. South Korea remains a 
very insular country in real estate terms, 
an issue that stems partly from cultural 
factors, partly from a shortage of suitable 
assets, and partly from the fact that there 
is already far more capital held by South 
Korean institutions—in particular local 
pension funds—than can be invested in 
domestic property assets. As one locally 
based fund manager observed, “It’s not 
that [foreign funds] don’t want to come 
to Korea, it’s that they can’t compete 
with local capital in terms of yields, and 
that locally, the opportunities just aren’t 
there.” Cap rates for commercial prop -
erty typically come in at about 5 percent, 
having compressed about 50 basis 
points during 2013. 
That said, a handful of foreign inves -
tors have been successful in making 
investments, although this has often 
been a result of their ability to leverage 
a local relationship to their advantage. One local investor suggested that, with 
the core market already tightly held, 
value-add plays were the best option for 
interested investors, focusing on under-
used or run-down properties. “There 
can be title-related issues because 
some buildings are sold strata-title, but 
there are no local institutions chasing 
after this opportunity—you might get 
about 10 to 15 percent returns.” On the 
opportunistic side, said a foreign fund 
manager, “The story’s over—you should 
have bought post–global financial crisis. 
There’s been a couple of transactions 
by foreign funds in the last 12 months or 
so, and the assets that are for sale are 
held by foreign funds that have lost their 
equity after buying at the peak of the 
market. Their equity is wiped out and 
you could buy [the building] for a dollar, 
but even at 50 cents on the dollar the 
deal doesn’t make sense—so even the 
deals that are out there are pretty hairy.”
Taipei (16th in investment, 13th 
in development). In 2011–2012, 
Taiwanese insurance companies were 
active buyers of domestic real estate 
assets, at least partly because, until this 
year, they have been restricted from 
investing in foreign assets. The result 
has been to drive up prices, a phenom -
enon curbed only after the government 
introduced further regulatory measures 
to cool the market. At just 2.2 percent, 
according to CBRE, Taipei’s cap rates 
are the lowest in Asia. As a result, the 
market in 2013 has been quiet, although 
there is interest in retail and hospitality assets based on continuing strength in 
mainland Chinese tourism. 
For most of 2013, domestic end-
users have been dominant in the 
market, accounting for about half of 
investment turnover, according to 
CBRE. With little new supply arriving 
on the market in recent years, vacancy 
rates have declined to around 8 percent, 
although this looks set to rise as more 
new stock is completed. 
Auckland (17th in investment, 19th in 
development). Recently, prices across 
all asset classes in New Zealand have 
risen strongly. In the prime office sector, 
strong demand, cheap financing, and 
tight supply saw capital values increase 
by more than 13 percent in 2013 in an 
improving economy, according to Jones 
Lang LaSalle. Cap rates stood at 7.9 
percent. Meanwhile, rents rose 6.5 per -
cent year on year in the first half of 2013. 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Taipei
Investment
prospectsDevelopment
prospects
5.46
5.31Seoul
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Investment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.34
5.32
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08Auckland
Investment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
4.875.06
45
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to WatchIn addition, fast-rising home prices 
have made New Zealand one of the 
world’s most overvalued residential 
markets, according to the Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and 
Development. With price increases 
averaging 13 percent per annum, the 
New Zealand government in October 
2013 restricted banks from granting 
highly levered low-interest home mort -
gages. With the government reluctant 
to increase interest rates in case this 
further boosts the New Zealand dollar, 
pressure for further increases to real 
estate values will continue over the 
medium term. 
Hong Kong (18th in investment, tenth 
in development). Hong Kong’s ranking 
has plunged in the investment prospect 
rankings in the years since 2011 as 
steeply rising home prices and some of 
Asia’s most compressed cap rates have 
stifled interest in both the residential 
property market and the commercial 
property market. The former has been 
tamed by new government macro-pru -
dential rules introduced at the beginning 
of 2013, imposing, among other things, 
new taxes on home sales. As a result, 
although prices are down only modestly, 
transaction volumes have plummeted, 
with both domestic and foreign (prin -
cipally mainland Chinese) speculators 
moving to other markets in both Asia 
and the West. 
On the commercial side, demand 
for prime office space in the CBD 
has been sluggish as financial sector demand drops and tenants move to 
outlying commercial districts, either on 
Hong Kong Island or in newly devel -
oped areas of East Kowloon. Average 
effective CBD rents in the third quarter 
of 2013 were down 20 percent from their 
peak two years earlier, according to 
brokers Cushman & Wakefield. 
For the most part, international funds 
have bypassed Hong Kong recently, for 
a number of reasons. First, the govern -
ment’s cooling measures are for the first 
time applicable to commercial property 
transactions, meaning that stamp duty 
has doubled for that asset class. Second, 
cap rates may have now expanded 
slightly but are still in the region of 3 per -
cent—very low even by Asian standards. 
Finally, given Hong Kong’s currency 
ties to the U.S. dollar, the city is seen as 
especially sensitive to the impact of rising 
interest rates that are widely expected 
to materialize in 2014. Most interviewees 
suggested that prices in both the com -
mercial sector and the residential sector 
were likely to fall in 2014. 
Ho Chi Minh City (19th in investment, 
20th in development). Over the last 
two years, the Vietnamese market has 
been hard hit by a combination of a 
mishandled economy that sent inflation 
to a high of 23 percent in 2012, and the 
prospect of a wave of bankruptcies and 
bank bad debts after Vietnam’s state 
banks engaged in a wave of lending, 
often to the property sector, without 
adequate credit checks or collateral 
safeguards. That said, there was a feeling among 
many interviewees that the worst of 
the problems may now be behind the 
market and that now may be the time for 
countercyclical investing to begin. For 
one thing, there is a serious shortage 
of investable stock in Vietnam, with one 
recent study completed by property 
industry group Asian Public Real Estate 
Association estimating that it had the 
smallest pool of investor-grade real 
estate in Asia. At just US$21 billion, it 
was less than half the size of the US$48 
billion worth of investor-grade real estate 
in second-last Philippines. The total is 
projected to grow to US$65 billion by 
2021, according to the report. Office 
supply is therefore struggling to keep up 
with growing demand. 
Another issue is that with both gold 
prices and interest rates down (the 
deposit rate is now 8.4 percent, down 
from a peak of 17 percent two years 
ago), residential real estate is a more 
attractive investment than before. In 
addition, growing foreign investment in 
the manufacturing sector means there 
is both greater purchasing power (and 
therefore higher demand in the retail 
sector) as well as an increasing need 
for industrial development in business 
parks and factory buildings. Investor 
interest at the moment appears to be 
led by the Japanese, who have long 
been active in Vietnam. 
Bangalore (20th in investment, 17th 
in development). Indian cities occupy 
the three bottom places in this year’s 
survey as a result of ongoing economic 
problems, an uncertain currency outlook 
following a steep plunge in the value 
of the rupee in midyear, and an invest -
ment environment widely perceived to 
be unfriendly to international investors. 
Interest remains high, however. With 
national elections looming and reports 
on the ground in India suggesting that 
the tide may be turning in receptivity to 
foreign investment, many foreign funds 
are waiting on the sidelines to see what 
happens. 
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Hong KongInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.57
5.03
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Ho Chi Minh CityInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
4.85
4.98
46
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014To some extent, Bangalore is iso-
lated from current problems in India 
given its status as a major IT/BPO 
center. The aforementioned decline 
in the rupee may in fact help the city’s 
prospects given the number of foreign 
service companies based there whose 
U.S. dollar cost basis will have been 
reduced as a result. Foreign participa -
tion in this market is therefore ongoing, 
with opportunistic funds partnering with 
local developers to acquire properties. 
As one locally based consultant said, 
“The [local] developers are seeing 
larger commitments of capital from 
those [foreign] players—the intent is 
to create platforms that will then either 
acquire and develop greenfield or partly 
developed properties, or even acquire 
income-producing properties if they are 
reasonably priced with good covenants. 
It’s an asset-management play with the 
IT component to deliver the needed 
IRRs [internal rates of return].” This per -
haps accounts for Bangalore’s slightly 
higher ranking (17th) as a development 
destination. 
On the ground, demand continues 
to be strong, with vacancies of around 
2 percent, according to Jones Lang 
LaSalle. Rents are stable and capital 
prices continue to rise gradually. Supply 
in some of the traditional IT parks is 
becoming tight, requiring an expansion 
of facilities in the outer (especially north -
ern) areas of the city to accommodate 
new demand. New Delhi (21st in investment, 22nd 
in development). Both rents and capi -
tal prices in Delhi continue to rise slowly 
after bottoming out in 2009, although 
they remain well below pre–global finan -
cial crisis levels. Substantial volumes 
of newly completed office assets were 
released onto the market in 2013, boost -
ing vacancy rates to some 27 percent, 
according to Jones Lang LaSalle. 
However, investment opportunities 
in New Delhi currently lie more on the 
residential side than the commercial 
side. This has been helped recently by 
new guidelines released by the local 
government that now allow conversion 
of old industrial buildings into serviced 
apartments and other types of accom -
modation.
In addition, work continues on the 
Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor, a 
development zone 1,000-plus kilome -
ters in length stretching between the two 
cities. As one interviewee said, “After the 
2007–2008 IT boom, we stopped focus -
ing on what lies in the middle, which is 
manufacturing, and over the last few 
years that has gained traction. So, some 
very significant manufacturing facilities 
have been created that are driving a lot 
of industrial activity, which institutional 
investors are now starting to look at.”
Chennai (22nd in investment, 21st 
in development). Compared with 
their peers in New Delhi and Mumbai, 
developers in Chennai are relatively 
risk-averse, leading to a market that is 
more fundamentally driven, with smaller ticket sizes, less volatility, and lower 
return expectations. Said one inter -
viewee, “Chennai is a more stable and 
end user–driven kind of market. In Delhi, 
if you launch a 500-unit apartment and 
you don’t sell 200 at the prelaunch 
stage, you say the project has been 
bombed. In Chennai, you don’t expect 
to sell 200 units until the building is at 
least five stories out of the ground.”
Until last year, most activity in 
Chennai was driven by the residential 
market, but more recently “we have 
seen more activity on the ready-income-
producing asset side—Chennai has 
always been the destination for value 
for money occupiers.” In a market cur -
rently dominated by domestic players, 
institutional investors have been picking 
up assets tenanted by multinational 
companies at values lower than current 
depreciated replacement cost.
The other sector where Chennai 
features prominently is in the industrial/
logistics space. Indian automakers are 
expanding their local footprints, but the 
logistics market remains underserved. 
As a result, “there are strong demand 
drivers that are beginning to settle 
down, and over the next couple of 
years we would expect Chennai to see 
significant demand from industrial and 
logistics occupiers.”
Mumbai (23rd in investment, 23rd in 
development). The situation in Mumbai 
is similar to that in New Delhi. On the 
commercial side, prices and rents con -
tinue to bump along the bottom, overall 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07BangaloreInvestment
prospectsDevelopmentprospects
5.00
4.85
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07New
Delhi
InvestmentprospectsDevelopmentprospects
4.424.70
012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07Chennai4.75
4.67
Investment prospectsDevelopment prospectsNote: Chennai is included 
for the ﬁrst time in 2014.
47
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to WatchLeading Asia Pacific Cities
Generally good
Fair
Generally poorInvestment prospectsBeijing
Hong 
KongNew DelhiSeoulTokyo
Osaka
  Ho Chi 
   Minh CityGuangzhou
Kuala LumpurTaipei
Shenzhen
Manila
   Sydney
   MelbourneShanghai
 Singapore
    JakartaBangalore
AucklandBangkok Mumbai
Chennai
48
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014vacancy rates remain high (at around 24 
percent), and the depressed economy 
constrains new business activity that 
would otherwise get the market moving. 
More than one large greenfield deal 
in Mumbai involving foreign investors 
was scratched in mid-2013 after the 
fall in the rupee created increased risk 
and prompted investors to pull out. A 
large supply pipeline of office stock due 
to arrive on the market in 2013 has not 
helped matters. In addition, a problem 
that arose in relation to payment of vari -
ous senior-secured lending transactions 
in Mumbai during the first quarter of 
2013 almost led to several defaults. This 
also has probably not helped Mumbai’s 
position in survey rankings, but the 
problems were resolved in the sec -
ond quarter and payments have since 
resumed. 
As with New Delhi, “commercial real 
estate continues to be a difficult area 
to transact, but residential continues to 
work.” There have therefore been some 
big land-acquisition transactions in 2013 
for large residential projects financed 
by institutional investors. As one local 
consultant said, “Primarily, investments 
are in the form of senior-secured trans -
actions—people prefer deals where 
you already have all the consolidations, 
building-planning permissions, and 
even 25 to 30 percent of the units sold.”Property Types in 
Perspective
Industrial/Distribution
This space continues to be the most 
popular in terms of investor sentiment 
in the 2014 Emerging Trends Asia 
Pacific  survey, and it was also the only 
sector where sentiment improved over 
last year. Though it arguably could no 
longer be classified as a niche play, 
logistics ticks a number of boxes for 
Asian investors at the moment. It offers 
significantly higher yields than other cap 
rate–constrained plays; it also offers 
a degree of specialization that allows 
investors to differentiate themselves 
from local competitors; and there is a significant degree of structural under -
supply, both in absolute terms and in 
relation to the more advanced types of 
distribution facilities such as those used 
by third-party logistics (3PL) provid -
ers, which are increasingly favored by 
Asian manufacturers. Finally, the extra 
demand being created by domestic 
consumer spending in Asia—especially 
from goods sold over the internet—is 
generating even more demand for ap-
propriately positioned and equipped 
facilities. The problem for most investors 
is getting a foothold in an industry long 
dominated by specialist players.
Best bets:  China’s secondary cit -
ies—followed closely by Shanghai, 
Guangzhou, and Shenzhen—are for 
the second year running top-ranked in 012345678
’14 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’10 ’09 ’08 ’07MumbaiInvestment
prospects
Developmentprospects4.244.65EXHIBIT 3-4
Prospects for Major Commercial Property Types in 2014
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.HotelsRetailApartmentsOfﬁceIndustrial/distributionResidential  (for sale)HotelsApartmentRetailOfﬁceResidential (for sale)Industrial/distribution
1
Abysmal5
Fair9
ExcellentInvestment prospects
Development prospects
5.96
5.935.375.345.295.066.03
5.81
5.80
5.635.535.33
49
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to Watchthe survey’s buy/sell ratings, with almost 60 percent of those 
surveyed recommending acquisitions there. This no doubt 
again reflects the surge in China’s internet sales, but it also 
underscores the inadequacy of current facilities, especially 
in view of the ongoing shift of manufacturing facilities from 
coastal cities into the country’s interior. Nonetheless, actu -
ally placing money successfully in this type of asset is tricky. 
As one investor said, “There’s a huge amount of competition 
for well-accessed land in sensible places, and there would 
typically be quite a lot of competition between logistics 
providers for these sites. It’s quite a complicated market, 
and because it’s competitive the returns aren’t enormous.” In 
reality, though, this is a play that is favored in many markets 
in Asia—in particular Japan, where there have been several 
large logistics-related transactions in the last couple of years, 
and where investors are continuing to develop new logistics 
infrastructure in the wake of the 2011 earthquake. Residential 
Although residential plays have long been an evergreen for 
Asian investors given their self-liquidating nature, they are 
perhaps not as popular as in previous years, for a number of 
reasons. First, prices in many Asian markets are very high. 
Second, the prospect of higher interest rates in the fairly near 
future will make residential mortgages less affordable. Finally, 
government macro-prudential measures aimed at cooling 
price increases continue to affect several markets in Asia. As 
one fund manager commented, “I think investors are a little bit 
nervous about residential in Asia because of the hand of the 
government.” Markets that seem especially exposed include 
Hong Kong, Singapore, Taipei, New Zealand, and—arguably 
at least—mainland China, where home prices have again 
begun rising steeply in 2013 despite three years’ worth of 
government restrictions aimed at cooling the market. The path 
of least resistance therefore appears to be on the downside 
for many, if not most, markets. Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 3-5
Industrial/Distribution Property Buy/Hold/Sell  
Recommendations, by City
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%Buy Hold Sell
% of total
AucklandTaipeiChennaiNew DelhiMumbaiHong KongKuala LumpurBangaloreSingaporeHo Chi Minh CitySeoulOsakaBeijingMelbourneBangkokTokyoSydneyManilaJakartaShenzhenGuangzhouShanghai59.4 31.3 9.4
57.1 34.3 8.6
50.0 39.3 10.7
50.0 39.3 10.7
50.0 31.8 18.2
50.0 40.9 9.1
46.9 43.8 9.4
45.9 37.8 16.2
45.5 45.5 9.1
42.9 46.4 10.7
42.9 45.7 11.4
39.3 46.4 14.3
39.1 52.2 8.7
39.1 47.8 13
34.3 48.6 17.131.8 40.9 27.331.8 63.6 4.5
31.4 54.3 14.3
26.9 46.2 26.9
26.9 46.2 26.922.7 50.0 27.35.9 70.6 23.50 92.3 7.7Mainland China:
Secondary Cities 
Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 3-6
Apartment Residential (Rental) Property Buy/Hold/
Sell Recommendations, by City  
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%Buy Hold Sell
% of total
AucklandHong KongTaipeiGuangzhouSingaporeShenzhenShanghaiNew DelhiKuala LumpurMumbaiBeijingMelbourneBangaloreHo Chi Minh CitySeoulChennaiSydneyBangkokOsakaJakartaTokyoManila 58.3 25.0 16.7
53.3 31.1 15.6
45.5 45.5 9.1
40 43.3 16.7
38.5 46.2 15.429.7 45.9 24.3
29.4 38.2 32.4
27.3 45.5 27.326.9 46.2 26.925 45.8 29.222.7 59.1 18.222.6 45.2 32.322.5 42.5 3522.2 51.9 25.920.8 54.2 2519.2 57.7 23.117.9 43.6 38.514.8 51.9 33.3
11.1 52.8 36.1
10.7 53.6 35.710.5 63.2 26.39.8 43.9 46.3
0 76.9 23.1Mainland China:
Secondary Cities 
50
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Best bets:  On the other side of the coin, Manila—with a 
young demographic, a growing economy, low vacancies, and 
large numbers of expatriates from multinational companies 
arriving to work there—was the top investment pick. In addi -
tion, many investors favor the residential sector in Tokyo; this is 
partly because Japan has become an investor target in 2014 
given the likely inflationary impact of Abenomics. With the 
office sector proving hard to break into given local competition 
for assets and a possible issue with oversupply, residential 
assets are now the number-one avenue into the market for 
many foreign investors. 
Office
The office sector continues to be popular in principle, but 
in practice it suffers from a very obvious problem: fevered 
competition from too much investment capital fighting over 
the same deals, especially in core assets. As one investor 
put it, “There’s too much money, too much liquidity in certain 
markets, and yet foreign funds still do deals because they have too much capital and they have to deploy it.” As a result, 
cap rates in many cities have become compressed beyond 
what many investors—and especially foreign funds—are 
willing to pay in an environment where rising interest rates 
threaten to undermine the viability of deals set at current price 
levels. Australia and Japan were the focus of attention in 2013, 
accounting for about half of all Asian office investment during 
the third quarter, according to CBRE.
Best bets:  Manila is a favorite for the office sector as it was 
for residential, and for many of the same reasons: an influx 
of foreign companies has arrived on the market, supporting 
already buoyant sentiment in a strong economy. Manila also 
offers the highest prime office yields in Asia, averaging about 
10 percent. Jakarta continues to show strongly following its 
number-one ranking in 2013, while Osaka’s resurgence after 
several years in the doldrums is also noteworthy. 
With the exception of Tokyo, a surprising number of sec-
ondary markets feature at the top of the rankings this year, 
reflecting how investors are looking for alternatives to the 
old guard. Other options include moving further up the risk 
curve in established markets. In Australia, Japan, and China, 
therefore, interviewees indicated an increasingly willingness to 
invest on the development side, or to buy B-grade assets and/
or to invest in suburban locations. 
Retail
The consumer play remains one of the fundamental themes 
pursued by Asian investors, and it is no coincidence that retail 
assets feature as some of the most popular investments by 
the handful of big opportunistic funds that currently dominate 
the foreign-investor landscape. The overarching theme, as 
one developer described it, is that investments “are geared to 
what I would call sustainable demand triggered by the move 
toward consumption driven by urbanization.” 
That said, in some markets there are questions whether 
retail has become too crowded a sector. In China, for 
instance, the explosion of retail projects in secondary and ter -
tiary cities is likely to create fallout because demand in those 
markets is insufficient to support so many projects. Location, 
as ever, is therefore key. As one retail developer said, “Within 
a tier-two city, or a tier-three for that matter, you have down -
town prime core location and you have suburban or new town 
vision location. The latter is fraught with risk, because it’s 
undeveloped, maybe subject to a change of vision at some 
stage, and really vulnerable to an oversupply equation. But 
even a tier-three city has its prime shopping core area, and 
if you can find a site that’s in that core area and it ticks all the 
normal criteria, it can be fine.”
Best bets:  Manila again comes out as a strong favorite 
on the retail side, just as it did in the residential and office 
categories, followed by another emerging market in Jakarta, 
then Tokyo (an Abenomics play), and then Shanghai, which is 
perhaps the first obvious retail destination in the group. Once Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 3-7
Office Property Buy/Hold/Sell Recommendations, 
by City
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%AucklandChennaiShenzhenNew DelhiHong KongGuangzhouTaipeiBangaloreKuala LumpurMumbaiMelbourneHo Chi Minh CityBeijingSeoulSingaporeShanghaiSydneyBangkokOsakaJakartaManilaTokyoBuy Hold Sell
% of total
55.3 34.0 10.6
52.0 36.0 12.0
44.0 40.0 16.0
42.4 36.4 21.2
38.5 46.2 15.438.3 53.2 8.5
38.3 40.4 21.334.1 43.9 22.033.3 53.3 13.327.5 42.5 30.026.0 48.0 26.025.9 48.1 25.925.7 60.0 14.325.0 56.3 18.823.3 53.3 23.323.1 61.5 15.421.7 52.2 26.119.4 71.0 9.7
18.8 54.2 27.1
16.1 64.5 19.414.7 73.5 11.88.0 64.0 28.07.7 69.2 23.1 Mainland China:
Secondary Cities 
51
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Chapter 3:  Markets and Sectors to Watchmore, the recent prominence of so many markets usually on 
the fringes of the investment universe reflects investors’ desire 
to move out of the mainstream in their quest for yield. 
Hotels
Hotels are seen as a generally solid sector to play in Asia 
today, partly because yields are again higher than the norm 
and partly because of rapidly growing tourism in the region, 
especially from China. Said one fund manager active in the 
sector, “The broader theme in hotels is particularly the grow -
ing middle class in Asia, and the proliferation of low-cost 
carriers has really changed the visitation numbers—they’ve 
gone from something like 5 percent to 28 percent of the 
market share. So now you’re getting shorter-haul Asian travel -
ers, and the seasonality of the business has also changed 
substantially in some of these resort destinations.” Best bets:  Tokyo was by far the favored destination in the 
hotel category. While this is to some an extent a play on the 
Japanese macro-story, it is probably even more a play on the 
Japanese Olympics story, which has set off a round of pos -
sibly irrational investment in the sector. As one Tokyo-based 
investor said, “There’s been a couple of hotel deals here 
recently where if you just look at the pricing, they only make 
sense if these guys are betting on the Olympics—but really, 
how much of a premium is it worth for these 30 days in 2020?” 
Apart from Tokyo, Jakarta also has featured strongly again. Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey. Source: Emerging Trends in Real Estate Asia Pacific 2014  survey.EXHIBIT 3-8
Retail Property Buy/Hold/Sell Recommendations, 
by CityEXHIBIT 3-9
Hotels Property Buy/Hold/Sell Recommendations, 
by City
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%Buy Hold Sell
% of total
AucklandChennaiTaipeiMelbourneBangaloreNew DelhiSydneyMumbaiShenzhenHong KongGuangzhouHo Chi Minh CityOsakaSeoulBangkokSingaporeBeijingKuala LumpurShanghaiTokyoJakartaManila 58.3 33.3 8.3
50 40.9 9.1
48.8 34.1 17.1
46.5 37.2 16.3
46.4 50.0 3.6
45.7 34.8 19.6
42.1 42.1 15.8
42.1 50.0 7.9
41.7 45.8 12.5
40.7 48.1 11.1
33.3 50.0 16.7
33.3 50.0 16.730 60.0 1026.7 35.6 37.825.8 64.5 9.723.1 50.0 26.922 63.4 14.619.2 53.8 26.9
19 61.9 19
16.1 67.7 16.110 60.0 309.5 71.4 197.7 76.9 15.4Mainland China:
Secondary Cities Buy Hold Sell
% of total
ChennaiAucklandNew DelhiMumbaiShenzhenGuangzhouShanghaiHong KongBeijingBangaloreMelbourneKuala LumpurSingaporeTaipeiMainland China:
Secondary Cities SydneyHo Chi Minh CityManilaBangkokSeoulOsakaJakartaTokyo
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%63.6 30.3 6.1
50.0 40.0 10.0
48.1 40.7 11.1
42.9 47.6 9.5
41.7 45.8 12.5
40.9 40.9 18.2
36.4 45.5 18.2
31.4 45.7 22.927.6 48.3 24.123.5 47.1 29.419.4 58.1 22.618.2 63.6 18.216.7 58.3 25.015.8 78.9 5.315.6 59.4 25.015.6 65.6 18.813.3 56.7 30.012.5 70.8 16.7
8.3 79.2 12.5
8.3 62.5 29.28.3 70.8 20.88.3 66.7 25.05.6 66.7 27.8
52
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Interviewees
Abacus Property Group
Natalia Chatalova
Gavin Lechem
AD Investment Management Co. Ltd.
Kenji Kousaka
AEW
David H. Schaefer
Altis Property Partners
Alastair Wright
Angelo, Gordon International LLC
Jon Tanaka
Aoyama Realty Advisors
Haruyuki Shinya
Ascendas Pte. Ltd.
Jonathan Yap
Asia Pacific Real Estate Pte. Ltd.
Steffen Wolf
Aviva Investors
Matthew Woodman
AXA Real Estate Investment Managers 
Japan KK
Tetsuya Karasawa
Baring Private Equity
Mark Fogle
BlackRock
Hamish McDonald
The Blackstone Group Japan
Akira Kosugi
BNP Paribas
Wee Liat Lee
Brookfield
Kurt Wilkinson
Brookfield Asset Management
Stuart Mercier
Cache Logistics Trust
Daniel Cerf
CapitaLand
Boaz Boon
Capital Realty Inc.
C.J. “Buddy” Ferry
CBRE
Nick Axford
Ada Choi
Marc Townsend
CBRE Global Investors
Richard T.G. Price
CBRE Global Investors Japan
Tetsuya Fujita
CBRE Global Investors Korea
Brian Ahn
Juliet ChaCFS Global Asset Management
Michael Gorman
Charles Moore
Challenger Financial Services Group
Trent Alston
Charter Hall
David Harrison
Citigroup Australia
Robert Van Aalst
CLSA Capital Partners
Wayne Spice
Colliers
John Kenny
Colliers International
David Faulkner
Daiwa House Industry Co. Ltd.
Tetsuo Suzuki
Deutsche Bank
Clay Kinney
Hugh Macdonald
Hans Van Der Sande
Diamond Realty Management Inc.
Takashi Tsuji
Far East Organisation
Philip Ng Chee Tat
Forum Partners
Andrew Faulk
Franklin Templeton Real Estate Advisors
Glenn Uren
Fukuoka Realty Co. Ltd.
Estuo Matsuyuki
GE Capital Real Estate
Jason Kougellis
Simon McDonald
Francois Trausch
GenReal Property Advisers
Anckur Srivastava
GIC Real Estate Pte. Ltd.
Wendy Wong
Goldman Sachs
Alexi Antolovich
GreenOak Investment Management K.K.
Fred Schmidt
Grosvenor Ltd. Japan Branch
Koshiro Hiroi
Henderson Global Investors (Singapore) 
Ltd.
Chris Reilly
Industry Superannuation Property Trust
Robert Pepicelli
Invesco Global Real Estate Asia Pacific 
Inc. Japan Branch
Ryukichi NakataInvesta Property Group
Campbell Hanan
Japan REIT Advisors Co., Ltd.
Kenichiro Oikawa
Jones Lang LaSalle
Richard Fennell
Christopher Fossick
J.P. Morgan Asset Management
Tyler E. Goodwin
Kenedix Inc.
Taisuke Miyajima
LaSalle Investment Management
Mark N. Gabbay
Lend Lease
Rod Leaver
M3 Capital Partners
Danny Krefman
Macquarie Group 
Brett Robson
M&G Real Estate Japan
Katsuhiro Ishikawa
Mercer
Padraig Brown
MGPA
Simon Treacy
Mitsubishi Corp.–UBS Realty Inc.
Toru Tsuji
Mitsubishi Jisho Investment Advisors 
Inc.
Masami Amano
Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking 
Corporation
Yutaka Imai
Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd.
Takayuki Kawashima
Mitsui Fudosan Investment Advisors Inc.
Ikuo Mori
Moelis & Co.
Julian Biggins
Ben Wong
Morgan Stanley Real Estate
Hoke Slaughter
Mori Building Co. Ltd.
Hiroo Mori
Nippon ResCap Investors
Ken Fridley
Nomura Real Estate Asset Management 
Co. Ltd.
Eiji Enomoto
Oaktree Japan
Toshi J. Kuroda
Oclaner Asset Management Pte. Ltd.
Dharuma Tharu
53
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014ORIX Asset Management Corporation
Tetsuya Yamashita
ORIX Real Estate Corporation 
Tetsuo Matsumoto
Pamfleet
Andrew Moore
Payce
Brian Bailison
Pembroke Real Estate
Mark Takeuchi
Pramerica Real Estate Investors
Henry Chin
Premier REIT Advisors Co. Ltd.
Fumihiro Yasutake
Professional Property Services Group
Nicholas Brooke
Property Council of Australia
Peter Verwer
Prudential
Morgan Laughlin
Raffles Quay Asset Management Pte. Ltd.
Warren Bishop
Raysum Co. Ltd.
Takeshi Tanaka
Sabana Real Estate Investment Trust
Kevin Xayaraj Tay
Samurai Capital
Ken Aoyama
SC Capital Partners
Andrew Heithersay
Secured Capital Investment Management
Naoya Nakata
Shinsei Bank Ltd.
Tadashi Miyano
Shui On Land
Bryan Chan
SIMCO
Neil Matthews
Matt Woodland
Standard Chartered Bank
Marc Bosnyak
Brian D. Chinappi
Mark Ebbinghaus
Starr International
Alison Cooke
Stockland
John Schroder
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Real Estate 
Investment Management
Mitsuo Kimura
SVP Global Asia LLC
Masatomo ZaizenSwire Properties
Guy Bradley
Tokio Marine Property Investment 
Management Inc.
Nobuki Goto
Shinji Kawano 
Tokyu Land Capital Management Inc.
Hitoshi Maehara
Tokyu Real Estate Investment 
Management
Yosuke Koi
Touchstone Capital Management Co. Ltd.
Fred Uruma
TransGlobe Life Insurance Inc.
Tim Chen
UBS 
Grant McCasker
Valad Funds Management
Nic Lyons
Westfield Retail Trust
Domenic Panaccio
54
Emerging Trends in Real Estate® Asia Pacific 2014Sponsoring Organizations
PwC real estate practice assists real estate investment advisers, 
real estate investment trusts, public and private real estate inves -
tors, corporations, and real estate management funds in developing 
real estate strategies; evaluating acquisitions and dispositions; and 
appraising and valuing real estate. Its global network of dedicated 
real estate professionals enables it to assemble for its clients the most 
qualified and appropriate team of specialists in the areas of capital 
markets, systems analysis and implementation, research, account -
ing, and tax.
Global Real Estate Leadership Team
K.K. So
Asia Pacific Real Estate Tax Leader
Hong Kong, China
Kees Hage
Global Real Estate Leader
Luxembourg, Luxembourg
Uwe Stoschek
Global Real Estate Tax Leader
European, Middle East & Africa Real Estate Leader
Berlin, Germany
R. Byron Carlock Jr.
National Real Estate Practice Leader
Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Mitchell M. Roschelle
National Real Estate Advisory Practice Leader
New York, New York, U.S.A.
Timothy Conlon
National Real Estate Assurance Leader
New York, New York, U.S.A.
Paul Ryan
National Real Estate Tax Leader
New York, New York, U.S.A.
www.pwc.comThe mission of the Urban Land Institute is to provide leadership in the 
responsible use of land and in creating and sustaining thriving com -
munities worldwide. ULI is committed to 
■■Bringing together leaders from across the fields of real estate and 
land use policy to exchange best practices and serve community 
needs;
■■Fostering collaboration within and beyond ULI’s membership 
through mentoring, dialogue, and problem solving;
■■Exploring issues of urbanization, conservation, regeneration, land 
use, capital formation, and sustainable development;
■■Advancing land use policies and design practices that respect the 
uniqueness of both built and natural environments;
■■Sharing knowledge through education, applied research, publish -
ing, and electronic media; and
■■Sustaining a diverse global network of local practice and advisory 
efforts that address current and future challenges.
 Established in 1936, the Institute today has more than 30,000 
members worldwide, representing the entire spectrum of the land use 
and development disciplines. ULI relies heavily on the experience 
of its members. It is through member involvement and information 
resources that ULI has been able to set standards of excellence in 
development practice. The Institute has long been recognized as one 
of the world’s most respected and widely quoted sources of objective 
information on urban planning, growth, and development.
Patrick L. Phillips
Chief Executive Officer, Urban Land Institute
ULI Center for Capital Markets and Real Estate
Anita Kramer
Vice President
www.uli.org/capitalmarketscenter
ULI Asia Pacific
John Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
www.uli.org/asia
Urban Land Institute 
1025 Thomas Jefferson Street, NW
Suite 500 West
Washington, DC 20007
U.S.A.
202-624-7000
www.uli.org

 
 
Emerging Trends in Real Estate®  
Asia Pacific 2014
What are the best bets for investment and devel­
opment in 2014? Based on personal interviews  
with and surveys from 250 of the most  influential leaders in the real estate industry, this  forecast will give you a heads­up on where to  invest, which sectors and markets offer the best prospects, and trends in the capital markets that will affect real estate. A joint undertaking of PwC and the Urban Land Institute, this eighth edition of Emerging Trends  
Asia Pacific is the forecast you can count on for no­nonsense, expert insight. Highlights
n  Tells you what to expect and where the best opportunities are.
n  Elaborates on trends in the capital markets, including sources and flows of equity and  debt capital.
n  Indicates which property sectors offer opportunities and which ones to avoid.
n  Reports on how the economy and concerns  about credit issues are affecting real estate.
n  Discusses which metropolitan areas offer the  most and least potential.
n  Describes the impact of social and political  trends on real estate.
n  Explains how locational preferences are changing.  
www.uli.org www.pwc.comISBN 978-0-87420-294- 6
9780874 20294690000
