Title: pwc_tax-glimpses-2012
Date Published: 2013-02-25 14:07:32+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_tax-glimpses-2012.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

www.pwc.in
Tax Glimpses - 2012  
We are delighted to present our annual publication, Tax Glimpses 2012.
We are pleased to bring you a brief analysis of the pertinent judgments and noteworthy regulatory developments in corporate tax, mergers 
and acquisitions and indirect tax which took place in 2012. This publication also incorporates a listing (with weblink connect wherever 
available) of various PwC Thought Leadership initiatives such as news alerts, newsletters and articles published during 2012.
The year 2012 saw much activity on the judicial, legislative and administrative fronts. The following developments were particularly 
significant:
•	 A landmark judgement was delivered by the Supreme Court in the case of Vodafone International BV.
•	 The Union Budget introduced tax reforms, such as the introduction of General Anti-Avoidance Rules (GAAR), Advance Pricing 
Agreements, retrospective amendments relating to indirect transfers of shares and royalty and provisions relating to domestic transfer 
pricing.
•	 The Direct Taxes Code, 2010 was postponed.
•	 The Parthasarathi Shome Committee Reports on GAAR and the indirect transfer of shares were released.
•	 P Chidambaram assumed charge as Finance Minister.
•	 As Finance Minister, Chidambaram issued a call to reduce the rigours of the GAAR, to make them more taxpayer friendly. 
•	 Draft guidelines and rules were released by the CBDT relating to Advance Pricing Agreements, employees’ provident fund guidelines, 
the valuation methodology for computing fair market value under section 56(2)(viib) of the Act, draft tax accounting standards, social 
security agreements, tax information exchange agreements, to name just a few.
We hope you enjoy this issue. As always we look forward to hearing from you.Foreword
Ketan Dalal
Joint Leader, Tax and 
Regulatory ServicesShyamal Mukherjee
Joint Leader, Tax and 
Regulatory Services
Corporate Tax Personal Tax Mergers and Acquisitions Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory ContentsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains          22
Depreciation          27
Tax exemptions/planning         29 Gift of shares          28 
GAAR           36Corporate law developments         31 International Update              38
Case laws                 39Case laws                     50
Circulars	and	Notifications       52FEMA        55
SEBI        70Taxability of Employees 
secondment expenses   20Royalties/PE                  5
Capital gains                14
Permanent establishment     15
Representative assessment   15
Circulars	and	notifications    16Fees for technical services     11
Presumptive taxation              12
Taxability of Turnkey 
contracts                 13
Corporate tax
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate taxPwC 5Royalties/PE
Embedded software 
Payment for supply of software embedded in hardware not 
taxable as 'royalties' even after retrospective amendment 
Facts
The assessee, a Finland-based company, is a leading manufacturer of 
advanced telecommunication systems and equipment (GSM equipment) 
which	are	used	in	fixed	and	mobile	phone	network.	It	was	maintaining	a	
liaison	office	(LO)	as	well	as	a	subsidiary,	in	India	(Nokia	India	Pvt.	Ltd	
(NIPL)). It had supplied GSM equipment to various telecom operators in 
India, on a principal-to-principal basis. Installation of this equipment was 
undertaken by its subsidiary, NIPL, under independent contracts with the 
Indian	telecom	operators,	while	its	LO	was	carrying	out	advertising	and	
other preparatory and auxiliary activities as permitted by the Reserve Bank 
of India (RBI). 
The	tax	officer	(TO)	held	that	the	LO	and	NIPL	constituted	permanent	
establishments (PE) of the assessee in India. It further held that the software 
embedded in the equipment supplied by the assessee would be taxable as 
‘royalties’ under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act, or under Article 13 of the India-
Finland tax treaty.    
The Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals) (CIT(A)) and the Income-
tax	Appellate	Tribunal	(the	Tribunal)	rejected	the	TO’s	order	taxing	the	
payment towards software embedded in equipment as royalty. However, it 
treated NIPL as assessee’s PE in India. 
High Court order
Existence of PE in India
•	The	Tribunal	observed	that	the	LO	had	not	carried	out	any	business	
activity for the assessee in India and its role was limited to assisting the 
assessee	in	preliminary	and	preparatory	work.	The	LO	had	obtained	
permission from the RBI and the latter had not found that there was 
any	violation	of	the	rules	on	the	part	of	the	LO.	Thus,	the	LO	did	not	
constitute the assessee’s PE in India.
•	 The assessee contended that the Tribunal’s conclusion that NIPL was a 
PE of the assessee was based on, and the result of, various factual errors 
in the order of the lower authorities and was therefore an erroneous 
conclusion. The revenue authorities denied this contention. The matter 
was returned to the Tribunal for fresh consideration. The Tribunal 
would also adjudicate on the attribution of income.Taxability of software payment as royalties
•	 The HC rejected the revenue’s contention that, on account of 
retrospective	amendments	to	the	definition	of	‘royalties’	by	the	Finance	
Act, 2012 (i.e. which stipulated that a consideration for a transfer of 
a ‘user right’ in software would be royalties), the question of use of a 
‘copyrighted article’ or actual copyright does not arise as the right to 
use a piece of software itself is a part of the copyright and the existence 
of any further right to make copies is irrelevant. 
•	 The HC also relied on the decision in the case of Siemens 
Aktiongesellschaft [2009] 310 ITR 320 (Bom) in which it was held that 
the amendment made to the Act cannot be read into the tax treaty.
DIT v Nokia Networks OY [TS-700-HC-2012(Del)]
Based on similar facts, in the case of DIT v Ericsson Radio System AB 
[TS-769-HC-2011(Del)], it was held that a taxable event which related 
to the supply of equipment took place outside India since the title of the 
equipment, along with the associated risks, was passed on to the buyer 
outside the country. Therefore, it could not be held that, when it supplied 
the equipment in which the software was embedded the assessee had 
rendered technical services which could be deemed to accrue or arise in 
India.
Furthermore, the equipment installation contracts undertaken by the 
assessee’s subsidiary in India were independent, since the assessee was not 
deriving	any	profit	out	of	it.	No	business	connection	arises	merely	because	
the installation contractors were the assessee’s subsidiaries and therefore as 
there was no business connection, the question of a PE did not arise.
Royalty/PE
Duration of preparatory services to be included when computing 
the period for determining whether there is a PE in India
Facts
The applicant, a tax resident of Singapore, entered into a contract with 
Indian	Oil	Corporation	Ltd	(IOCL)	relating	to	the	installation	of	a	terminal	
for the discharge of crude oil from sea vessels to an onshore tank. Another 
contract was also in effect, under which Larsen & Toubro (L&T) appointed 
ONGC	to	carry	out	installation	and	construction	work	which	was	sub-
contracted to the applicant.Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC6Issues
The applicant sought an advance ruling on the taxability of the payments 
received	under	the	above	two	contracts	and	contended	the	following:
•	 Both the contracts were for installation work (i.e. construction and 
mining work) and, hence, were covered by the exception provided in 
Explanation 2 to section 9(1)(vii) of the Act.
•	The	applicant	did	not	make	available	to	IOCL	of	IOCL	technical	
knowledge, skills, know-how. Hence, the income cannot be considered 
as fees for technical services (FTS) under section 9(1)(vii) of the Act.
•	 Therefore, business income would only be taxable if there was the 
existence of a PE in India.
•	 Since the installation work continued in India for less than 183 days 
and	the	applicant	did	not	have	any	office	or	premises	in	the	country,	no	
PE was in existence in India, under the terms of Article 5 of the Double 
Taxation Avoidance Agreement (the tax treaty) between India and 
Singapore. 
The applicant also contended that the activities carried out under the 
contract with L&T were connected to prospecting, extraction or production 
of mineral oils and, in the absence of a PE in India, there would be no 
liability under the provisions of section 44BB of the Act.
AAR ruling
•	 The Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) observed that, in the case 
of	IOCL,	since	only	25%	of	the	receipts	were	received	for	installation	
work and the rest were related to the use of the vessels to carry out 
the installation work, the contract was not for installation work. Even 
though	it	was	a	composite	contract,	IOCL	was	paying	for	each	of	the	
items separately.
•	 In the case of Ishikawajma-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd v DIT 
[2007] 288 ITR 408 (SC), it was held that where the consideration 
of	each	portion	of	the	contract	is	separately	specified,	the	receipts	are	
independently taxable on the basis of the source and nature of the 
receipt. 
•	 In the case of State of Madras v Richardson & Cruddas Ltd [1968] 
21 STC 245 (SC), it was held that mobilisation and de-mobilisation 
expenses relate to use of equipment for undertaking installation work. 
Hence it is taxable as royalty under Article 12(3)(b) of tax treaty. 
•	 As the installation work was ancillary and subsidiary to the use of 
equipment and the enjoyment of the right to use that equipment, the payment for installation work was taxable as FTS under Article 12(4)
(a) of the tax treaty. 
•	 Further, as per the contract with L&T, the scope of work included 
various preparatory services, including surveys, drawings, engineering, 
etc. These services go went beyond installation work and included pre-
and-post installation services. 
•	 Under Article 5(5) of the tax treaty, an enterprise shall be deemed 
to have a PE if it provides ‘services or facilities’, in connection with 
exploration, exploitation or extraction of mineral oils, for a period of 
more than 183 days in a contracting state. 
•	 The duration during which such preparatory activities or facilities are 
carried out cannot be excluded when calculating the duration of a PE in 
India under Article 5(5) of the tax treaty. 
•	 Since the activities of the applicant, including the preparatory services, 
extended beyond 183 days, they constituted a PE as per the deeming 
provisions of Article 5(5) of the tax treaty and were liable to tax under 
section 44BB of the Act. 
Global Industries Asia Pacific Pte Ltd v DIT [TS-89-AAR-2012]
Outsourcing contracts
Outsourcing contracts transferred to an Indian company not 
taxable
Facts
The assessee-T&C Ltd, a UK-based company, entered into various business 
process	outsourcing	(BPO)	contracts	outside	India	related	to	rendering	IT	
services to various non-resident companies. The contracts were further sub-
contracted to WNS India, an Indian company.
The	assessee	took	over	T&C	Ltd’s	business,	including	the	BPO	contracts,	
and sold them to WNS India for a consideration. Consequently, WNS 
India	became	solely	responsible	for	the	obligations	under	the	various	BPO	
contracts.
The	revenue	authorities	held	that	since	the	BPO	contracts	were	a	revenue	
generating asset, consideration for its transfer was taxable as income in the 
hands	of	the	assessee.	Furthermore,	10%	of	the	consideration	in	respect	of	
the	BPO	contracts	was	attributable	to	the	assessee’s	services	PE	in	India,	as	
per Article 7 of the India-UK tax treaty, since the assessee had a service PE in 
India in relation to management services rendered by it to WNS India. Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC7Tribunal order
•	The	BPO	contracts	were	executed	with	non-resident	companies	outside	
India. Therefore, they were capital assets situated outside India. 
•	Hence,	consideration	on	the	transfer	of	the	BPO	contracts	or	assets	
cannot be treated as income deemed to accrue or arise in India.
•	 As regards the applicability of Article 7 of the tax treaty, it was observed 
that the service PE in India had no involvement in the acquisition of 
the	BPO	contracts	or	its	subsequent	transfer	to	WNS	India.	Therefore,	
consideration received against such contracts cannot be treated as 
income attributable to the assessee’s PE in India.
Hence, the consideration was not taxable in the hands of the assessee, either 
under the provisions of section 9 of the Act or under Article 7 of the tax 
treaty.  
WNS Global Services (UK) Ltd v ADIT [2012-TII-23-ITAT-MUM-INTL]
Course fee
Income of a foreign university from distance learning course are 
not royalties
Facts
The assessee company was engaged in marketing, promotion and provision 
of certain ancillary services to Tower Innovative Learning Solutions Inc 
(TILS), USA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cornell University (Cornell), 
USA. The assessee also assisted in registering students for courses offered 
by	Cornell	and	in	collecting	the	combined	fees.	TILS	entered	into	an	affiliate	
agreement	with	the	assessee	for	marketing,	promotion	and	other	specified	
ancillary services relating to the courses offered by Cornell in India. The 
affiliate	agreement	provided	the	assessee	with	a	limited,	non-exclusive,	
non-transferable, non-sub-licensable right and licence to market, promote 
and provide certain ancillary services connected with the offering and 
distribution of distance learning courses by Cornell. 
The assessee made an application under section 195(1) of the Act requesting 
a	nil	tax	withholding	certificate	on	the	grounds	that	the	payment	made	to	
Cornell was business income and, in the absence of TILS having a PE in 
India, such payments were not taxable.
After	considering	the	agreement	entered	into	between	the	parties,	the	TO	
held that the assessee was liable to withholding tax on the payment made, 
under the terms of Article 12 of the India-USA tax treaty, since the payments 
made to TILS were in the nature of royalties. The CIT(A) upheld the order of 
the	TO	on	the	grounds	that	the	payments	made	for	the	right	to	use	the	TILS	trademarks, service marks, logos, etc., together with the associated licence, 
and the limited non-exclusive, non-transferable, non sub-licensable right to 
offer and distribute courses by TILS, were in the nature of payments for the 
right to use a trademark or a copyright.
Tribunal order
•	 The assessee was assigned the role of marketing the courses, assisting 
in the registration process, collecting combined fees and providing 
infrastructure to enable registered students to access the course content 
on a website.
•	 Cornell owned the right to, title and interest in the courses.
•	 According to the end-user agreement, the students received the right 
to access the course material by using their unique login ID and the 
assessee did not obtain the use or right to use any copyright or literary 
work. 
•	 Also, it was not for the use or right to use a patent, trademark, design, 
plan, secret formula or process, etc.
•	The	affiliate	agreement	related	to	the	pooling	of	resources	by	way	of	an	
agreement in which the respective roles and responsibilities had been 
assigned and the fee sharing of the parties were set out.
•	 Therefore, the payment made to TILS by the assessee was not for 
any kind of service but was for apportionment of fees. This could not 
considered	as	royalties	as	defined	under	Article	12	of	the	tax	treaty.
Hughes Escort Communications Ltd v DCIT [TS-158-ITAT-2012(Del)]
Subscription
Payments received under a software distribution agreement will 
be taxable as royalties
Facts
The	taxpayer,	Citrix	Systems	Asia	Pacific	Pty	Ltd	(Citrix),	a	resident	of	
Australia, entered into a software distribution agreement with I Ltd for the 
distribution of computer hardware and software. Under this agreement, the 
orders placed by I Ltd were directly delivered to end-users who downloaded 
the software from Citrix’s servers. The price paid for the software was paid 
by I Ltd, after deducting its own commission. I Ltd also facilitated the Citrix 
subscription programme with the existing customers. This programme 
involved a package of support services, including product version updates. 
All transactions between the applicant and I Ltd were on a principal-to-
principal basis. The issue before the AAR was whether payments made by I Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC8Ltd to Citrix under the software distribution agreement were to be taxed as 
royalties under section 9 of the Act and under the India-Australia tax treaty 
(Australia treaty).
AAR ruling
•	 The AAR ruled that the payment received by Citrix under the software 
distribution agreement was taxable as royalties under the Act and 
under the Australian treaty since it granted the right to download and 
receive version updates. 
•	 The AAR observed that when an owner sells software he also sells the 
right to use the software. It rejected the applicant’s contention that the 
transfer was of a copyrighted article and not of a copyright and held 
that the payment was in the nature of royalties and I Ltd was required 
to withhold tax as per the Australian treaty.
•	 The AAR placed reliance on the rulings in the cases of IMT Labs (India) 
Pvt. Ltd., In re (287 ITR 450), Airport Authority of India, In re (304 
ITR 216), Millenium IT Software Ltd (AAR No.835 of 2009) and the 
Karnataka HC’s decision in Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (TS-696-HC-
2011(Kar)), in which it was held that payment for software will be 
taxable as royalties.
Citrix Systems Asia Pacific Pty Ltd In re [TS-82-AAR-2012]
In	ITO	v	People	Interactive	(I)	Pvt.	Ltd.	[TS-129-ITAT-2012],	the	Mumbai	
Tribunal held that payments for hosting a website cannot be treated 
as royalties. The taxpayer was the host of a website which provided 
information about matrimonial alliances on payment of a subscription 
amount. It received information technology services from a company called 
R Inc. The Tribunal held that the payment made to R Inc was business 
income and not royalties. Also, in the absence of a PE in India, this payment 
was not taxable. Reliance was placed on the decision in the case of Asia 
Satellite Telecommunications Ltd [TS-29-HC-2011 (Del)] where it was 
observed that when equipment was not under the control of the assessee, 
payments made for receiving services were not royalties under the Act or 
the India-USA tax treaty. Therefore, tax withholding was not required under 
section 195 of the Act, as was held by the Supreme Court (SC) in the case of 
GE Technology Centre P. Ltd [2010] 327 ITR 456 (SC).
In	ONGC	v	ITO	[TS-846-ITAT-2012(Del)],	the	Delhi	Tribunal	held	that	
payment by the assessee for accessing information from a website was 
royalties, both under the Act and the India-UK tax treaty. The assessee was 
engaged in the business of prospecting for hydrocarbons to augment India’s 
oil security. Accordingly, it participated in oil exploration, production and 
development activities for which it subscribed to the website of a company, 
W Ltd. This subscription was in the nature of a non-transferable licence, possessed by the assessee, for downloading the information. The Tribunal 
held that information available to the assessee was licensed information. 
Accordingly, subscription fees paid by the assessee were covered by the 
definition	of	royalties	under	section	9(1)(vii)	of	the	Act	and	Article	13(3)	of	
the India-UK treaty. Accordingly, the subscription was liable to withholding 
tax. In this regard, the assessee placed reliance on Wipro Limited [Ts-701-
HC-2011(Kar)] and differentiated this from the ruling in the case of Dun 
and Bradstreet Espana SA [2005] 271 ITR 99(Kar). 
The AAR, in the case of Acclerys KK, In re [TS-119-AAR-2012], has held that 
payments received by a non-resident for the sale of a software application to 
end-users through an independent reseller in India were taxable as royalties 
under Article 12 of the Indo-Japan tax treaty. In light of the ruling in the 
case of Citrix Systems (above), the AAR ruled that software cannot be used 
without the use of the copyright embedded in it. Accordingly, the payment 
for such use will be constitute payment of royalties and will be chargeable to 
tax. 
Telecasting
Payment to non-resident for satellite up-linking and telecasting 
programmes not royalties or fees for technical services
Facts
The assessee, a tax resident of India, is engaged in the business of the 
production and distribution of internet media. It entered into an agreement 
with Shan Satellite Public Co Ltd (SSA), a tax resident of Thailand, for 
relating to satellite up-linking and telecasting programmes. 
The expenditure incurred in this respect was claimed as broadcasting and 
telecasting expenditure. In addition, consultancy charges were also paid by 
the assessee to SSA. 
The	TO	considered	the	payments	made	by	the	assessee	to	SSA	to	constitute	
fees	for	consultancy	charges	within	the	meaning	of	FTS	as	defined	in	
Explanation	2	of	section	9(1)(vii)	of	the	Act.	The	TO	held	that	since	there	
was a failure on the part of the assessee to withhold tax under section 195 of 
the Act from the payment made to SSA, it was liable to disallowance under 
section 40(a)(i) of the Act. 
On	appeal,	the	CIT(A)	held	that	the	assessee	company	had	received	a	highly	
sophisticated technical service from SSA and the payment for such services 
was taxable as FTS under section 9(1)(viii) of the Act read with Explanation 
2 of that Act. The CIT(A) also held that the uplinking or downlinking of the 
signals	for	broadcast	was	possible	only	by	use	of	the	scientific	equipment	
owned by SSA and the amount paid for such use was alternately chargeable 
to tax in India as royalty as per Article 12 of the India-Thailand tax treaty.Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC9Tribunal order
•	 Where the assessee had no control over or possession of the equipment, 
it cannot be said that the payment made to SSA was for the use or right 
to	use	any	industrial,	commercial	or	scientific	equipment.	Hence,	this	
payment was not taxable as FTS under section 9(1)(vii) of the Act.
•	 In this regard, reliance was placed on the decision in the case of Asia 
Satellite Telecommunication Co Ltd [2011] 332 ITR 340 (Del), in 
which it was held that while providing transmission services, the 
control of the satellite or the transponder always remains with the 
satellite operator and the customers are merely given access to the 
transponder’s capacity.
•	 Since the customer does not utilise the process or equipment involved 
in its operations, the charges paid cannot be treated as royalties under 
the tax treaty. 
•	 Therefore, the payment related to the provision of the facility 
constituted SSA’s business income and was covered by Article 7 of the 
India–Thailand tax treaty. There is no need to take recourse to Article 
22 of the tax treaty with Thailand which covers only those items of 
income not covered expressly by any other article of the tax treaty with 
Thailand. 
•	 Hence, the payments to SSA were not liable to withholding tax under 
section 195 of the Act and the disallowance made under section 40(a)
(i) of the Act was to be deleted.
Channel Guide India Ltd v ACIT [TS-662-ITAT-2012(Mum)]
Based on similar facts, the same view was taken in the case of Times Global 
Broadcasting Co Ltd v DCIT [2012-TII-11-ITAT-MUM-INTL] in which it 
was held that payment made to a non-resident towards transponder hire 
charges cannot be treated as royalties since the process of amplifying and 
relaying the programmes was carried out through the satellite which was 
not situated in the Indian airspace. Therefore, no process had taken place in 
India.
In the above cases, the Tribunal observed that the assessee cannot be held 
liable to withhold tax as a result of subsequent amendments made in the Act 
which have a retrospective effect.Shrink-wrapped software
Income from sale of shrink-wrapped software not taxable as 
royalties
Facts
The assessee, a US tax resident, is engaged in distributing software to 
end-users through its distributors or sub-distributors in India, under a 
distribution agreement which also contains an end-user licence agreement. 
The assessee did not offer the income from the sale of shrink-wrapped 
software to tax. 
The tax authorities held that the end-user was granted a licence to use the 
software. Hence, the amount was taxable as royalties under Article 12(3) of 
the India-USA tax treaty. 
It was also held that the decision of Delhi HC in the case of DIT v Ericsson 
AB [TS-769-HC-2011(DEL)] was in the context of the sale of equipment 
in which software was embedded, and was not a case of the sale of shrink-
wrapped software. Hence, the decision in that case is was not applicable to 
the assessee’s case.
Tribunal order
•	 The Mumbai Bench of the Tribunal, relying on the cases of Dassault 
Systems KK, In re [TS-126-AAR-2010] and Ericsson AB [TS-769-
HC-2011(DEL)], held that income from the sale of shrink-wrapped 
software was not taxable as royalties as a result of the distinction 
between copyright and copyrighted article. 
•	 Reliance was placed on sections 14(a)(i) and (vi) of the Copyright Act, 
1957, under which only reproduction and adaptation for the purpose 
of commercial exploitation was said to be a copyright and therefore 
consideration in this regard considered as royalties. Accordingly, 
consideration paid merely for ‘right to use’ cannot be held to be 
royalties.
DDIT v Solid Works Corporation [TS-76-ITAT-2012 (Mum)]
In a similar case, ACIT v Sonata Information Technology Ltd [TS-683-ITAT-
2012(Mum)], the Mumbai Tribunal, relying on the decision in the case of 
Solid Works, held that the payment made by a resident for the purchase 
of software from a resident company was not considered as royalties and, 
hence, not liable to tax withholding under section 194J of the Act.
The above two rulings were in favour of the assessee. However, the 
Karnataka	HC,	in	the	case	of	CIT	v	Synopsis	International	Old	Ltd	[TS-182-
HC-2010(KAR)], held that the sale of shrink-wrapped software is taxable as Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC10royalties, following the decision in the case of CIT v Samsung Electronics Co 
Ltd [TS-696-HC-2011(KAR)]. 
The assessee, an resident of the Republic of Ireland, entered into a technical 
licence agreement (TLA) with its US parent, Synopsis US (SUS). Under 
the TLA, SUS was the owner of the copyright in the software and granted 
a licence to the assessee to commercially exploit the intellectual property 
rights in certain geographies. SUS also required the assessee to enter into 
an end-user licence agreement with the customers to protect its rights in the 
product and documentation, and the intellectual property in the software. 
The tax authorities taxed the income from the supply of software received 
from Indian customers as royalties under section 9(1)(vi) of the Act. The 
Tribunal	reversed	the	order	of	the	TO.	The	assessee	contended	that	that	the	
consideration was for ‘off-the-shelf’ software, in the nature of a copyrighted 
article, and there was no transfer of any right in the copyright.
The HC held that the intention of the provisions was not to exclude the 
consideration paid for the use of the copyrighted article. To constitute 
royalties under the Act, it is not necessary that there should be a transfer 
of exclusive right in the copyright but a transfer of ‘any interest in the 
right’ and payment for a grant of a licence constitutes royalties under the 
Act. Thus, it was irrelevant that the consideration was for the transfer of 
copyright or of a copyrighted article.
Accordingly, even if there was no transfer of an exclusive right in copyright, 
transfer of intellectual property was equivalent to transfer of a copyright and 
the receipts were taxable as royalties.
Right to use know-how
Consideration for right to use know-how for a limited period 
taxable as royalties in the absence of any outright transfer
Facts
The assessee, a Swedish company, entered into an agreement with 
Atlas Copco (I) Ltd in March 1985 to supply technical know-how for 
manufacturing screw type air compressors and also to render technical 
assistance in manufacturing activities. Under the agreement, a lump sum 
consideration was payable in three instalments to the assessee by Atlas 
Copco (I) Ltd. The assessee contended that the lump sum consideration 
received was capital in nature and, hence, not taxable. 
The	TO	contended	that	the	lump	sum	consideration	was	taxable	in	India	as	
royalties under the terms of Article 7 of the India-Sweden tax treaty. The 
CIT(A)	and	the	Tribunal	confirmed	the	order	of	the	TO.HC order
•	 The HC noted that the assessee had received the money for providing a right to 
use	know-how	for	a	specified	period,	and	there	was	no	outright	transfer	of	the	
know-how. 
•	 It held that if the assessee retained all the rights in the know-how for itself and 
it was only the limited right to use it which was provided under the agreement, 
then the consideration was nothing but royalties received as payment for the 
right to use the know-how for a limited period. It was held that the payment 
to allow a right to use know-how constitutes royalties under the in terms of 
Article 7 of the India-Sweden tax treaty (which existed at that time).
Atlas Copco AB of Sweden v. CIT [TS-15-HC-2012(BOM)]
Film distribution rights
Receipts for granting film distribution rights not royalties 
Facts
The assessee, a non-resident company, is engaged in the production and 
distribution	of	films.	It	entered	into	an	agreement	with	Warner	Bros	Pictures	
(I) Pvt. Ltd. (WBPIPL) relating to the granting of exclusive rights distribute 
cinematographic	films	to	WBPIPL,	on	a	payment	of	royalties.	The	WBPIPL	withheld	
tax on the royalties amount. The assessee claimed a refund in the tax return on the 
grounds that consideration for sale, distribution and exhibition of cinematograph 
films	is	excluded	from	the	definition	of	royalties	under	section	9(1)(vi)	of	the	
Act, as well as under Article 12(3) of the India-US tax treaty. Hence, it such a 
consideration	is	not	taxable.	The	TO	assessed	the	royalties	income	by	applying	
Article	12(2)	of	the	India-US	tax	treaty	at	the	rate	of	15%.
Tribunal order 
•	 The Tribunal noted that Explanation 2(v) to section 9(1)(vi) excludes payment 
received	for	sale,	distribution	and	exhibition	of	cinematographic	films	from	
the	definition	of	royalties.	Further,	the	term	royalties	defined	in	Article	12	
of the India-US tax treaty does not include payment of a consideration for 
the	use	of	any	copyright	or	literary,	artistic	or	scientific	work,	including	
cinematographic	films	or	work	on	films,	tape	or	other	means	of	production,	
for use in connection with radio or TV broadcasting. Therefore, the Tribunal 
held that the amount received by the assessee was not royalty under the Act or 
under the tax treaty.
•	 It also held that the amount was not taxable as business income since 
the assessee did not have a PE in India. The Indian company had acted 
independently in obtaining the rights. Hence, the provisions of relating to an 
agency PE were not to be invoked. 
ADIT v Warner Brothers Pictures Inc [TS-787-ITAT-2011(Mum)]Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
PwC11Corporate tax
Facts
The applicant is an Indian company which has a network of retail fuel 
stations in India. The applicant entered into a cost contribution agreement 
(CCA) with a Shell Group company (a group company) to provide general 
business support services which were in the nature of advisory management 
support	services.	The	applicant	sought	an	advance	ruling	on	the	following:
•	 Whether the payments made by the applicant to the group company to 
receive general business support services under the CCA will constitute 
income under provisions of the Act.
•	 If the said payment is considered as income, whether that payment will 
amount to FTS as per the provisions of the India-UK tax treaty.
The applicant contended that the services received by it did not make 
available any technical knowledge, skills, experience, etc. which would 
enable it to apply the technology independently. There was no element 
of income involved since the agreement was only a ‘cost contribution 
arrangement’.
AAR ruling
•	 The activities under the CCA covered all types of activities, which 
included the core activities of a retail business. Any advice that helps 
the taking of a decision of a commercial nature constitutes technical or 
consultancy services. 
•	 Advisory services will be consultancy services if an element of expertise 
or special knowledge on the part of the consultant is established.
•	 The AAR opined that ‘make available’ means that the recipient of the 
service	should	be	in	a	position	to	derive	an	enduring	benefit	and	be	in	a	
position to utilise the knowledge or know-how in future on his own. It is 
not	necessary	that	this	making	available	should	be	specifically	provided	
for in the service agreement.
•	 The applicant contended that it became the owner of any know-how 
generated through the services which enabled it to use any intellectual 
property generated from the business support services, independent 
of the service provider. Hence, the services under the agreement were 
clearly made available to the applicant and were in the nature of FTS.
•	 As the payment related to the rendering of services by the group 
company was taxable as FTS, the applicant was required to withhold 
tax under section 195 of the Act even where there was no PE.
Shell India Markers Pvt. Ltd., In re [TS-58-AAR-2012]IT support services
IT support services by a non-resident using equipment under its 
control in India is taxable as FTS 
Facts
•	 The assessee, an Indian subsidiary of a non-resident company, is engaged in 
the supply and commissioning of electric equipments for the transmission 
and distribution of power. The non-resident company proposed to enter 
into an IT-sharing services agreement (IT agreement) with the assessee, to 
provide IT support services in areas such as WAN, IBM Lotus Notes (email 
software), license user rights and application support. 
•	The	assessee	filed	an	application	before	the	AAR	seeking	a	ruling	on	the	
taxability of payment made for the services. The assessee contended that 
the payment was in the nature of reimbursement to the non-resident 
company and hence is not chargeable to tax as royalties or FTS.
AAR ruling
•	 The AAR noted that the payment under the IT agreement was not in the 
nature of reimbursement, since it was stated in the agreement that the non-
resident company had the capacity and resources to provide and coordinate 
the IT services.
•	 Again, in the absence of any details, the equipment may be owned by the 
non-resident company and, even if it hires the equipment, it would be 
under the exclusive control of the non-resident company.
•	 The AAR also held that the existence of a computer server amounts to 
the existence of a PE of the assessee in India, in terms of Article 5(2) of 
the	India-France	tax	treaty	and	the	OECD	Model	Commentary,	which	
provides that a PE may exist if the business of the enterprise is carried on 
mainly through automatic equipment and the activities of the personnel 
are restricted to setting up, operating, controlling and maintaining such 
equipment.
•	 The AAR, relying on the decision in the case of Perfetti Van Melle Holding 
B.V., In re [TS-723-AAR-2011], held that since the IT services were 
provided to the assessee and the services were applied in running the 
assessee’s business and since the employees of the assessee were also 
equipped to operate these systems on their own after the completion of the 
IT agreement, the services were ‘made available’ since the assessee was 
in	a	position	to	derive	an	enduring	benefit	and	was	in	a	position	to	utilise	
the knowledge in the future on its own. Therefore, the AAR held that the 
payment for the services was in the nature of FTS.
AREVA T&D India Ltd., In re [TS-81-AAR-2012]Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC12Geophysical survey
Payment made for airborne geophysical survey services is not FTS
Facts
The assessee is engaged in the business of prospecting for and mining 
diamonds and other minerals. It had entered into an agreement with F BV 
Netherlands (Fugro), to carry out an airborne geophysical survey, which 
required specialised equipment and personnel for the collection of high-
quality data to select kimberlite rocks. Consequently, the assessee made a 
payment to Fugro for conducting the airborne survey without withholding 
any tax, contending that though the data provided by Fugro was useful for 
further operations, Fugro had not ‘made available’ the technical know-how 
for conducting the survey.
High Court order
The HC observed that though the nature of the services rendered by Fugro 
was technical in nature, it was liable to tax under section 9(1)(vii) of the 
Act. However, under the India-Netherlands tax treaty, payment of any 
amount would be considered as FTS only if such services made available any 
technical knowledge, expertise, skills, know-how or process to the service 
receiver.	The	Tribunal	relied	on	the	SC	decision	in	the	case	of	UOI	v.	Azadi	
Bachao Andolan [TS-5-SC-2003] in holding that the provisions of the tax 
treaty would override the provisions under the Act. 
In this case, the technical services provided by Fugro would not enable the 
assessee	to	undertake	any	future	survey.	There	was	no	enduring	benefit	
from the technical knowledge provided. Accordingly, although Fugro 
rendered technical services under section 9(1)(vii) of the Act, payment 
for the same could not be considered as FTS under the Netherlands treaty. 
Hence, the assessee was not liable to withhold tax under section 195 on the 
payment made to Fugro. 
CIT v. De Beers India Minerals Pvt. Ltd. [TS-312-HC-2012 (Kar)]
Balanced Scorecard
Consideration for the implementation of Balanced Scorecard 
system taxable as FTS under the Singapore treaty
Facts
The tax payer is a Singapore resident engaged in developing a Balanced 
Scorecard (BSC), which is a strategic performance management tool. The 
services were provided to Indian companies, and involved these companies 
downloading licensed software from designated websites and a team being 
sent by the taxpayer to develop the BSC. The taxpayer contended that the fees received were in the nature of business income under the India-
Singapore tax treaty (Singapore tax treaty). In the absence of a PE, the fees 
received	were	not	taxable.	The	TO	divided	the	consideration	into	two	parts	
and assessed the sale of software as royalties and the professional fees as 
FTS.	The	TO’s	order	was	confirmed	by	the	DRP.	
Tribunal order
The Tribunal held that the BSC system was customised to the requirements 
of the clients and not ‘off-the-shelf’ software. It held that the taxpayer was 
making available technical knowledge and skills to the companies and the 
BSC system did not become redundant after the expiry of the agreement 
with the Indian companies. Hence, the assessee had made available 
technical knowledge and skills to the clients for using the BSC for their 
business. Accordingly, under the Singapore tax treaty, the fee received was 
taxable as FTS.      
Organisation Development Pte Ltd. v. DDIT (International Taxation)[TS-86-ITAT-
2012-CHNY]
Presumptive taxation  
Income from seismic data procurement and processing services 
relating to oil exploration taxable under section 44BB
Facts
OHM	Ltd.,	a	UK	company,	is	engaged	in	providing	geophysical	services	
to the oil and gas exploration industry. It has secured contracts with two 
companies P LLC and CGG SA relating to providing seismic services for an 
offshore exploration block in India.
The	assessee	applied	for	a	certificate	under	section	197	of	the	Act	to	
withhold	tax	at	a	lower	rate	of	4.223%	under	the	provisions	of	section	44BB	
of	the	Act.	On	rejection	of	the	application	for	the	certificate	under	section	
197	of	the	Act,	the	assessee	filed	an	application	before	the	AAR	claiming	that	
the activities were directly related to exploration relating to and prospecting 
of mineral oil and were covered by section 44BB of the Act. The AAR ruled 
that the seismic services were taxable under section 44BB of the Act at an 
effective	rate	of	4.223%.	The	revenue	filed	a	writ	petition	before	the	HC	
on the issue of whether seismic services in India would be taxable under 
section 44BB or section 44DA of the Act.
High Court order
The	HC	upheld	the	ruling	of	the	AAR,	holding	that	section	44BB	is	a	specific	
provision relating to computing income of non-residents from services or 
facilities provided in connection with prospecting for and extraction or Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC13production of mineral oil in India. Section 44DA of the Act is a more general 
and broader provision relating to the assessment of income of a non-resident 
as royalties or FTS connected with the PE of the non-resident. 
Further, amendments made by introducing provisos to both the sections 
indicate that the sections are exclusively applicable, since both the sections 
have a different mode of computation. The court held that a harmonious 
construction of the aforesaid sections was necessary so that the provisions of 
both the sections are not rendered redundant.
Accordingly,	the	Court	upheld	the	view	taken	by	the	AAR	that	the	specific	
provisions would override the general provisions. Therefore, the seismic 
services would be taxable under section 44BB of the Act.
DIT v. OHM Ltd. [TS-879-HC-2012]
Taxability of turnkey contracts
Looking at the nature of a transaction, consortium bidding and 
executing a turnkey project gives rise to an association of persons 
and consideration in this respect is income taxable in India
Facts
•	 The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRC) had tendered 
a contract for the design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing 
and commissioning of signalling, train control and communication 
systems to a consortium involving the assessee (a tax resident of 
France), its subsidiaries Alstom Projects India Ltd. (APIL), Thales 
Security Solutions and Services, SA, Portugal (Thales) and Sumitomo 
Corporation, Japan (Sumitomo).
•	 The parties to the consortium were jointly and severally bound by the 
terms	of	the	tender	and	liable	to	the	BMRC	for	fulfilling	the	obligations	
under the contract.
 AAR ruling
•	 The AAR, relying on the decision in the case of Vodafone International 
Holdings	BV	v.UOI	[2012]	341	ITR	1	(SC),	held	that	the	revenue	
authorities have to look at the transaction as a whole and not to adopt 
a dissecting approach. It also held that the basic principle in the 
interpretation of a contract is to read it as a whole and to construe all its 
terms in the context of what object the implementation of the contract 
was intended to achieve and what purpose it was intended to attain.
•	 Merely because the members have divided the obligations among 
themselves does not alter the status of those entering into the contract 
(i.e.	the	status	of	an	association	of	persons	(AOP)).•	 The contract was for installing the signalling and communication 
system for the metro rail and not only for the supply of offshore 
equipment and has to be read as a whole and cannot be split-up.
•	 The source of the receipt was the contract with the BMRC and not 
the contract inter se or the understanding among the members of the 
consortium. The members had jointly prepared the bid and had come 
together in order to execute the project if their tender was accepted. 
They were jointly responsible for performing the entire work. The 
common object was to perform the contract and earn income.  
•	 Accordingly, the AAR held that the consortium was liable to be taxed as 
an	AOP.
Alstom Transport SA, In re [TS-387-AAR-2012]
The AAR has, in the case of Linde AG (Linde Engineering Division), In re 
[TS-170-AAR-2012], which was relied upon at the time the decision in the 
case of Alstom Transport S A (above) was announced, held that the fact 
that a design or machinery was to be supplied offshore did not determine 
the situs of the contract. The AAR also held that the internal division of 
work responsibility and other terms and conditions under the consortium 
(MOU)	agreement	between	the	parties	could	not	be	referred	to	to	in	order	
to interpret the rights and obligations under the contract with the Indian 
entity. The AAR held that the contract was held to be indivisible since the 
situs of the contract was in India. Therefore, the amount receivable was 
received	by	an	AOP	and	was	taxable	in	India.
Splitting of a project into a set of contracts for offshore and 
onshore components not to be disregarded
Facts
The	assessee,	a	non-resident	Chinese	company,	has	a	project	office	in	India.	
It	entered	in	to	two	contracts:	one	with	WBPDC	Ltd.	and	another	with	DP	
Ltd., for setting up turnkey thermal power projects. The assessee submitted 
its tax return (which recorded a loss) offering income from onshore 
activities to tax but did not offer income from offshore activities to tax on 
the grounds that this income is not liable to tax in India. In doing so, the 
assessee relied on the decision in the case of Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy 
Industries Ltd. v. DIT [2007] 288 ITR 408 (SC). 
During	the	course	of	assessment	proceedings,	the	TO	noticed	that	each	
of these contracts was divided into two parts. The onshore activities were 
performed	and	the	consideration	was	received	in	India	by	the	project	office	
of the assessee in India, and the consideration for offshore supplies was 
received	by	the	assessee	outside	India.	The	TO	also	noted	that	there	was	a	
‘cross-fall breach clause’ which treats the non-performance of one contractArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC14as	a	breach	of	the	whole	contract.	On	that	basis,	the	TO	held	that	the	
contracts	were	artificially	split-up	to	avoid	taxation	on	income	in	India	and,	
accordingly, treated the contracts as integrated and one for the purpose of 
taxation.	The	DRP	confirmed	the	order	of	the	TO.		
Tribunal order
The	Tribunal	noted	that	the	TO	had	treated	the	two	contracts	as	integrated	
merely on the grounds that the assessee has incurred a loss on onshore 
activities. It held that although the ‘cross-fall breach clause’ undoubtedly 
indicates that the ‘offshore supplies contract’ and ‘onshore services and 
supplies contract’ are required to be viewed as an integrated contract, it 
could not be argued held that the onshore services and supplies contract is 
was understated to avoid tax in India. This would be the case if the offshore 
activities	showed	unreasonable	profits	and	onshore	services	and	supplies	
resulted in unreasonable losses.
The Tribunal also held that the observations made in the case of Alstom 
Transport SA, In re [TS-387-AAR-2012] regarding looking at the transaction 
as a whole and not adopting a dissecting approach can be applied in all 
cases in which separate contracts are entered into for offshore supplies and 
onshore services. However, these observations are certainly applicable in 
cases in which the values assigned to the onshore services are prima facie 
unreasonable vis-à-vis the values assigned to the offshore supplies which 
make no economic sense when viewed apart from the offshore supplies 
contract.
It was noted in this case that all the activities, i.e. onshore as well as 
offshore, had resulted in huge losses due to the inordinate delay in the 
project	which	the	DRP	had	also	considered.	The	TO	had	proceeded	on	the	
basis	that	profits	had	been	made	on	offshore	supplies	outside	the	ambit	
of taxation in India. Therefore, the Tribunal returned the case back to the 
TO	for	a	fresh	adjudication,	to	examine	whether	the	assessee	had	incurred	
overall losses on the contracts.
Dongfang Electric Corporation v. DDIT [TS-434-ITAT-2012(Kol)]
The Delhi Tribunal, in the case of National Petroleum Construction 
Company v. ADIT [TS-756-ITAT-2012(DEL)], has held that in the case of a 
UAE tax resident assessee, which had entered into an umbrella contract, if 
the consideration for offshore and onshore activities is stated separately and 
is agreed between the parties and the assessee at the time of awarding the 
contract, the contract may be construed as a divisible contract. The Tribunal 
held	that	in	this	case,	only	the	part	of	the	profits	attributable	to	the	PE	in	
India	is	taxable	and	the	profits	from	offshore	supplies	cannot	be	taxable	
since the terms of the contract provided a right to withdraw or abandon the contract. However, the company or the contractor was not liable to make 
the entire payment or refund the amount received, which accrued only on 
completion of the contract. Hence, the contract could not be regarded as a 
turnkey	contract	and	only	the	profits	attributable	to	the	PE	in	India	can	be	
taxed in India.
In	another	case,	that	of	SEPCO	III	Electrical	Power	Construction	
Corporation, In re [TS-60-AAR-2012], the AAR held that consideration 
received by the assessee, a Chinese company, from the offshore supply of 
equipment, including design, engineering, procuring and transportation 
activities, to an Indian company is not taxable by virtue of the binding 
decision of the SC in the case of Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries 
Ltd. v. DIT [2007] 288 ITR 408 (SC). The AAR also rejected the contention 
of the revenue authorities that the assessee had a continued presence in 
India since, because a substantial part of the contract amount was allocated 
to civil and erection purposes, the applicant had to coordinate with the 
relevant contractors relating to pre-commissioning activities and to provide 
assistance and support to the relevant contractors at all times during a 
period of 90 days.
Capital gains
A transfer of shares or other interests pursuant to a family 
arrangement is not a transfer for purpose of capital gains tax 
Facts
The assessee was party to a family arrangement relating to certain personal 
and	family	properties.	On	account	of	a	dispute	between	family	members,	the	
matter was referred to arbitration. 
Under a settlement suggested by the arbitrator, the assessee transferred his 
share	in	the	partnership	firm	to	other	members	who,	in	turn,	transferred	
their	shares	to	the	assessee.	The	TO	treated	the	settlement	as	a	‘transfer’	
and held that the assessee was liable to pay capital gains tax. The CIT(A) 
confirmed	the	order	of	the	TO.	On	appeal,	the	Tribunal	held	that	the	family	
arrangement made in accordance with the suggestions of the arbitrator did 
not amount to a ‘transfer’, and hence the assessee was not liable to pay any 
capital gains tax.
High Court order
•	 The HC placed reliance on the case of CGT v. K N Madhusudhan [Gift 
Tax	Appeal	Nos.	1&2/2008]	in	which	the	following	was	held:
	−‘Transfer’	does	not	include	partition	or	family	settlement	as	defined	
under the Act.Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC15	−Since every member had a pre-existing title to the property which 
was the subject matter of a the transaction (the partition) an 
adjustment of shares and crystallisation of the respective rights in 
family properties took place and this could not be construed as a 
transfer under the law.
•	 The Tribunal had held, on consideration of the settlement agreement 
between the parties, that the transaction was a family arrangement.
•	 Accordingly, it was concluded that the there was no transfer in respect 
of shares transferred under the family arrangement and, hence, no 
liability to pay capital gains tax arose.
CIT v. R Nagaraja Rao [TS-222-HC-2010(Kar)]
Permanent establishment
Inherent right of the state of residence to tax global income 
remains where business is carried on through a PE
Facts
The assessee, a tax resident of India, is engaged in providing 
telecommunication services in India and abroad. It had earned business 
income from numerous projects undertaken in various foreign countries 
through its PEs in the respective countries. However, the tax payer did not 
include the business income from the foreign countries in its income taxable 
in India since it was exempt from tax under the respective tax treaties.
The	TO	held	that	the	business	income	attributable	to	the	PEs	was	liable	to	
be taxed in India under Article 7 of the respective tax treaties. The CIT(A) 
upheld	the	order	of	the	TO.
On	appeal	to	the	Tribunal,	it	was	held	that	under	the	provisions	of	section	
5 of the Act, India had an inherent right to tax the global income of its 
residents.	Article	7	of	all	the	relevant	tax	treaties	consisted	of	two	parts:	(a)	
‘shall be taxable only’, giving the ‘state of residence’ an exclusive right to 
tax the assessee’s business income, and   (b) ‘may be taxed’ giving the ‘other 
contracting state’, where the PE is situated, a right to tax the tax payer’s 
business income.
Therefore, even though all the tax treaties applicable to the tax payer use 
the phrase ‘may be taxed’, the inherent right of taxing global business 
income in India remains.
Accordingly, the Tribunal held that where the tax treaty contains the phrase 
‘may be taxed’, the state of residence would have an inherent right to tax the 
global income of tax payer in India and also the income attributable to the 
PEs of the tax payer in the foreign countries.
Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-185-ITAT-2012 (Del)]Another	decision	on	a	similar	issue	was	given	in	the	case	of	DCIT	v.	Essar	Oil	
Ltd. [TS-461-ITAT-2011]. In this case, the tax payer, E Ltd, had branches in 
Qatar	and	Oman	which	were	treated	as	PEs	of	the	tax	payer.	The	Tribunal	
held that the tax payer was not taxable in India in respect of the income of 
the	foreign	PEs,	under	Article	7	of	the	tax	treaties	with	Qatar	and	Oman.
The Tribunal observed that by using the expression ‘may also be taxed’ 
in the other state, the contracting parties permitted only ‘the other state’, 
i.e. the state in which the income was of sourced, to tax the income and 
precluded the state of residence from taxing the income.
Representative assessment
Taxability of income in the hands of a non-resident not a relevant 
consideration to determine whether a resident is an agent of a 
non-resident
Facts 
The assessee had entered into agreements with a non-resident, Airline 
Rotables Ltd., UK (ARL) relating to obtaining aircraft components. 
It	had	requested	the	TO	to	issue	a	nil	tax	withholding	certificate	in	relation	
to	the	payments	to	be	made	to	ARL.	However,	the	TO	did	not	grant	a	nil	tax	
withholding	certificate,	holding	that	ARL	had	a	PE	in	India	and,	accordingly,	
business income attributable to the PE would become taxable in India. 
During	the	course	of	the	assessment	proceedings	relating	to	ARL,	the	TO	
relied	on	the	findings	of	the	TO,	estimated	ARL’s	income	attributable	to	the	
PE	and	taxed	the	same	as	business	income.	The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	findings	
of	the	TO.	The	Tribunal	held	that	ARL	did	not	have	a	PE	in	India	and,	
therefore,	the	income	was	not	taxable	as	business	profit	in	India.	
While	the	assessment	proceedings	relating	to	ARL	were	pending,	the	TO	
also issued a notice to the assessee treating it as an agent or representative 
assessee	of	ARL	under	section	163(1)(b)	and	163(1)(c)	of	the	Act.	On	
appeal,	the	CIT(A)	reversed	the	order	of	the	TO	and	held	that	the	assessee	
cannot be considered as an agent of ARL.
Tribunal order
•	 The purpose of section 163 of the Act is to enable revenue authorities 
to proceed and impose a vicarious liability on a person regarded as an 
agent, in the event that income is found to be taxable in the hands of 
the non-resident. 
•	 The provisions of section 163 of the Act do not require that the liability 
of the non-resident to pay tax should be established before initiating 
proceedings against a person under section 163 of the Act in order to Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC16treat it as an agent or representative assessee of the non-resident. 
•	 The taxability of income in the hands of a non-resident was to be 
determined in separate assessment proceedings, i.e. one in relation to 
payment made directly in the hands of the non-resident (section 166 
of the Act) or another in relation to payment made in the hands of the 
person treated as an agent of the non-resident (section 160 of the Act 
read with section 163 of the Act).
•	 A person is to be regarded as an agent of the non-resident if any of the 
parameters	specified	in	section	163(1)(a)	to	(d)	of	the	Act	are	satisfied.	
•	 In this case, the assessee was to be treated as an agent of ARL, for the 
following	reasons:
	−Sufficient	nexus	existed	between	ARL’s	business	and	the	assessee	as	
envisaged under section 163(1)(b) of the Act.
	−ARL was in receipt of income from the assessee for services 
rendered, as envisaged under section 163(1)(c) of the Act.
It was further held that an order under section 163 of the Act was not an 
assessment order. Hence, there was no merit in the assessee’s contention 
that simultaneous proceedings against the principal, as well as the agent, 
cannot be initiated.
ADIT v. Jet Airways (India) Pvt. Ltd. [2012] 19 taxmann.com 37 (Mum)
One	may	note	that	in	the	case	of	Vodafone	International	Holdings	B.V.	v.	
UOI	[TS-23-SC-2012],	a	similar	issue	was	dealt	with	by	the	SC	ruling	in	the	
favour	of	the	assessee:
Facts
The Hutchison Group (Hong Kong) owned a stake in CGP Ltd., a Cayman 
Islands	company,	which	in	turn	was	holding	67%	interest	in	an	Indian	
operating company Hutchison Essar Ltd (HEL). Vodafone International 
Holdings	B.V.	(VIH),	a	Dutch	entity,	acquired	100%	shares	in	CGP	Ltd.	from	
Hutchison group, which amounted to an indirect acquisition of an interest in 
the Indian entity, HEL.
The revenue authorities treated VIH as a representative assessee of 
Hutchison group under section 163(1)(c) of the Act and proceeded against 
it for non-withholding of tax under section 195 of the Act in respect of a sale 
consideration paid to Hutchison group for acquiring CGP and consequently 
HEL.  The SC held the following:
In respect of tax withholding obligation under section 195 of the Act
Section 195 of the Act only applies if payment is made by a resident to a non-
resident. In the case in question, the sale transaction was an outright sale 
between two non-residents, of a capital asset (CGP shares) outside India.
Since VIH had no tax presence in India in relation to this sale transaction, 
VIH cannot be brought under the jurisdiction of the Indian tax authorities 
and the tax withholding provisions under section 195 of the Act would not 
apply to VIH. 
In respect of the representative assessee proceedings
In order to invoke section 163(1)(c) of the Act, income must be deemed to 
have accrued or arisen in India. The capital asset transferred (i.e. shares in 
CGP Ltd.) was not situated in India and, hence, VIH cannot be proceeded 
against under section 163 of the Act.
Circulars and notifications
Approval of foreign currency borrowings
CBDT clarifies the approval mechanisms for applying a lower 
withholding tax rate to foreign currency loans. 
Section 194LC has been inserted into the Finance Act, 2012, which provides 
for	tax	withholding	at	5%	on	interest	payment	on	foreign	borrowings	by	an	
Indian company. This section provides for lower withholding tax at the rate 
of	5%	of	interest	subject	to	fulfilment	of	the	following	conditions:
1. Amount borrowed in foreign currency either under a loan agreement 
or by issue of long-term infrastructure bonds, approved by the central 
government. 
2. Monies borrowed or bonds issued during the period from 1 July 2012 to 
30 June 2015.
3. Monies borrowed or bonds issued during the period from 1 July 2012 to 
30 June 2015.
4. The rate of interest should be approved by the CG.
	−The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), in order to mitigate 
the associated compliance burden, issued a circular prescribing 
compliance with the conditions outlined in A, B and C below  to 
utilise borrowings under the automatic route, without approval 
from the CG.Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC175. In respect of loan agreements
•	The borrowing of money should be under a loan agreement.
•	 The monies borrowed by the Indian company should comply 
withexternal commercial borrowings (ECB) regulations (section 
6(3)(d)	of	the	FEMS,	1999	read	with	notification	no	FEMA3/2000-
RB	viz.	Foreign	Exchange	Management	(Borrowing	or	Lending	in	
Foreign exchange) Regulations 2000, dated 3 May 2000) either 
under the automatic route or under the approval route.
•	The borrowing company should have obtained a loan registration 
number (LRN) issued by the RBI.
•	No part of the borrowing has taken place under the agreement 
before 1 July 2012.
•	It should not be a restructuring of an existing agreement for 
borrowing in foreign currency solely for the purpose of taking 
benefit	of	reduced	withholding	tax	rates.
•	The end use of the funds should comply with other conditions laid 
down by the RBI under ECB regulations. 
	−For issue of long-term infra bonds
•	The bonds issued by the Indian company should be authorised 
under ECB regulations either under the automatic route or 
under the approval route.
•	The bonds issue should have a LRN issued by the RBI.
•	The term ‘long-term’ means that the bonds to be issued should 
have an original maturity term of three years or more.
•	The bond issue proceeds should be utilised in the 
infrastructure sector only (infrastructure sector shall have the 
same meaning as assigned under the ECB regulations).
	−Rate of interest
•	The CG has approved the interest rate for the purpose of 
section 194LC as any rate of interest which is within the all-
in-cost	ceilings	specified	by	the	RBI	under	ECB	regulations		
applicable to borrowing by loan agreement or through a 
bonds issue.
6. In the case of other long-term infrastructure bonds, where the Indian 
company receives subscription of foreign currency bonds, and the 
issue is not covered under ECB regulations,  approval, for the purpose 
of section 194LC shall be on a case- by-case basis. Also, an application 
shall be made by the Indian company to Member (IT) CBDT with relevant details of the purpose, period and rate of interest in respect 
thereof.
Circular no 7/2012, F No. 142/17/2012-SO(TPL) dated 21 September 2012
Retrospective amendments
Clarification regarding reopening of completed assessments as a 
result of retrospective amendments by the Finance Act, 2012
The	Finance	Act,	2012	has	introduced	certain	clarificatory	amendments	
with	retrospective	effect	relating	to	the	following:
•	 Indirect transfer of shares according to Explanation 4 and Explanation 5 
of section 9(1)(i) of the Act which has been inserted with retrospective 
effect from 1 April 1962.  
•	 Taxability of royalty according to Explanations 4, 5 and 6 of section 
9(1)(vi) of the Act which has been inserted with retrospective effect 
from 1 June 1976.
The	CBDT	has	clarified	that	completed	assessments	would	not	be	reopened	
on account of the above retrospective amendments under the following 
circumstances:	
•	 The assessment proceedings under section 143(3) of the Act have been 
completed before 1 April 2012. 
•	 No notice for reassessment under section 148 of the Act read with 
section 147 of the Act has been issued prior to that date.
However, any assessment or any order which stands validated due to the 
clarificatory	amendments	would	be	enforced.
Set-up of institutional mechanism
CBDT sets up institutional mechanism for forming departmental 
view on contentious legal issues
The CBDT has set up the following institutional mechanisms to formulate 
‘departmental views’ on contentious legal issues to provide clarity on 
contentious legal issues, promote consistency of approach on a given issue 
and reduce litigation.
Central technical committee 
A standing committee in the Board known as the ‘Central Technical 
Committee (CTC) on Departmental View’ with prescribed members will 
be set up. The senior-most member shall act as chairman of the CTC in its 
meetings	and	may	also	invite	any	officer	of	the	department	conversant	with	
the matter for relevant inputs and deliberations.Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
Corporate tax
PwC18The secretariat
A secretariat will be formed to assist the CTC which shall be headed by 
the	DIT(Research)/CIT(OSD)	under	the	supervision	and	control	of	the	
DGIT(L&R). The secretariat will conduct research and provide inputs 
necessary for the CTC to deliberate upon the issues and formulate the 
‘departmental view’ for consideration of the Board.
Regional technical committee
Each CCIT (CCA) shall constitute a ‘Regional Technical Committee’ (RTC) 
comprising the prescribed members to discuss the legal issues at the local 
level.
Identification of contentious legal issues
Any issues considered as contentious and having wide implications shall be 
referred	to	the	RTC	as	and	when	they	are	identified.	The	possible	sources	to	
identify	such	issues	may	include	the	following:	
•	 The administrative CIT
•	 The CIT(DR)
•	 The CIT(A)
In	addition	to	the	above,	any	officer	may	refer	an	issue	considered	
contentious to the secretary of the RTC through the CIT concerned. The RTC 
may also pick up any issue for consideration suo motu.
Procedure at RTC
The secretary of the RTC shall submit the references for consideration of the 
RTC. No reference is to be pending for more than two months. 
The RTC shall examine the issue with reference to the relevant provisions 
of the Income-tax Act and the judicial decisions available on the issue. The 
RTC	shall	refer	the	issue	to	the	CTC	in	the	following	circumstances:
•	If	there	are	conflicting	interpretations	by	Tribunal/HC/AAR	in	respect	
of a statutory provision
•	 If the interpretation of a statutory provision by Tribunal/HC/AAR 
defeats the legislative intent
•	If	the	dispute	involves	substantial	revenue	or	has	wide	ramifications
•	 If the issue involved is resulting in large scale litigation,
•	 If there is any other reason for referring the issue to the CTCThe	proposals	to	the	CTC	should	include	the	following:
•	 A brief referral note specifying the controversy.
•	Copies	of	relevant	orders	e.g.	orders	of	the	AO,	CIT(A),	ITAT,	High	
Court etc. as may be available.
Work process of the CTC
•	 The secretariat may receive references for the consideration of the CTC 
from CBDT, RTCs and DsIT (L&R). 
•	 The CTC may also pick up any issue for consideration suo motu.
•	The	proposal	shall	be	first	processed	by	the	secretariat	as	may	be	
directed by the committee to enable it to formulate the departmental 
view, taking into account various aspects and divergent opinions on the 
issue. 
•	 The committee shall take up references to formulate the ‘departmental 
view’ considering their relative importance. However, the reference 
received from the Board shall be prioritised.
•	 The committee shall examine the issue under consideration and form 
a tentative view, which may be circulated to the RTC seeking their 
response, who may also obtain a response from the CTC.
•	The	final	draft	will	be	prepared	and	sent	for	examination	by	the	circular	
group of the Board.
Dissemination of ‘departmental view’
•	 The ‘departmental view’ approved by the Board will be issued as a 
circular under section 119 of the IT Act.
•	 Where any HC decides an issue contrary to the ‘departmental view’, 
the ‘departmental view’ shall not be operative in the area falling in the 
jurisdiction of the relevant HC. 
•	 However, the CCIT concerned should immediately bring the judgment 
to the notice of the CTC, which shall examine the judgment as a matter 
of	priority	to	decide	whether	the	filing	of	SLP	to	the	Supreme	Court	will	
be an adequate response or to call for some legislative amendment.
This institutional mechanism comes into force from 29 August 2012.
Notification no - F no. 279/M-61/2012-ITJ dated 28 August 2012Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal Tax
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Royalties/PE
Capital gains
Permanent establishment
Representative assessment
Circulars	and	notificationsFees for technical services
Presumptive taxation
Taxability of Turnkey contracts
PwC19Personal tax
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC20Personal tax
Taxability of employee’s secondment expenses
Reimbursement of employee relocation expenses paid by foreign 
company is not taxable
Facts  
The tax payer, G Ltd, provides data processing and other IT-enabled services 
to H Ltd. The tax payer had made certain payments to H Ltd. towards 
reimbursement of relocation expenses and expenses on employee awards 
on	which	no	tax	was	withheld.	The	TO	contended	that	H	Ltd.	provided	
consultancy services and the payment was made along with a mark up and 
was therefore subject to withholding tax. 
Tribunal order
The Tribunal, on the basis of evidence produced by the tax payer, held that 
the payments made to H Ltd. were in the nature of reimbursement of actual 
expenses and included no income element. In this regard, reliance was 
placed on the decision in GE India Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. [TS-140-
SC-2010] in which it was held that there was no obligation to withhold tax 
unless the sum payable to a non-resident was chargeable under the Act. 
Also, reference was made to the case of Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. v. 
DCIT	[2009]	30	SOT	374	(Mum)(SB),	in	which	it	was	held	that	there	was	no	
obligation to withhold tax where there was no element of income involved.  
Global E-Business Operations Pvt. Ltd. v. Deputy DCIT (IT) [TS-499-ITAT-2012 
(Bang)] 
In	ITO	v.	PQR	India	[TS-258-ITAT-2012(Bang)],	the	Bangalore	Tribunal	
held that reimbursement of salary costs under a secondment agreement was 
not fees for included services (FIS) under the India-US treaty and would 
not be subject to withholding tax. The Tribunal, relying on the decision in 
the	case	of	IDS	Software	Solutions	India	(P)	Ltd	v.	ITO	[2009]	122	TTJ	410	
(Bang), held that the secondee was an employee of the assessee, subject 
to tax under section 192, and was not rendering any technical services. 
Therefore, there was no requirement to withhold tax on the salary. This 
ruling	did	not	consider	the	decision	of	Verizon	Data	Services	India	(P)	Ltd.	
[2011] 337 ITR 192 (AAR), in which it was held that managerial services 
rendered by deputed employees qualify as FIS under the India-US treaty.In Abbey Business Services (India) Pvt. Ltd v. DCIT [TS-532-ITAT-
2012(Bang)], a similar issue was the subject of a decision by the Bangalore 
Tribunal which held that reimbursement of salary and other administrative 
costs under a secondment agreement were not FTS. It was observed that the 
assessee was the real and economic employer of the seconded employees 
and the reimbursement of salary costs and other administrative expenditure 
was	without	any	profit	element	and	was	taxed	under	the	Act	or	Article	13	
of the India-UK tax treaty. Therefore, there was no requirement to withhold 
tax and there would be no disallowance under section 40(a)(i) of the Act. 
In Avion Systems Inc. v. DDIT [TS-370-ITAT-2012], the Mumbai Tribunal 
held that deputation of technicians was not a simple supply of manpower 
but was taxable as FIS. The Payment in this respect was taxable as 
FIS since the assessee was not a general recruiting agency but was 
providing	specialised	personnel	because	of	its	expertise	in	the	field	of	
telecommunications. The assessee was providing technical personnel and 
‘making available’ the expertise of the assessee. Accordingly, the receipts 
were taxable as FIS. 
In	Centrica	India	Offshore	Pvt.	Ltd.,	In	re	[TS-163-AAR-2012],	the	AAR	
ruled that an employee secondment arrangement gave rise to a service PE 
for the overseas entity under the India-UK tax treaty. Under a secondment 
agreement (SA) between the applicant and its overseas subsidiaries, 
employees were seconded to work under the control and supervision of 
the applicant. The AAR ruled that, under the SA, the employees’ right 
to remuneration related to the overseas entities. The applicant had no 
obligation to pay salary and, hence, the seconded employees created a 
service PE for the foreign company. In this regard, reliance was placed on 
the SC decision in the case of DIT v. Morgan Stanley [TS-5-SC-2007] and 
Verizon	Data	Services	 India	Pvt.	Ltd.,	In	re	[TS-236-AAR-2011].	 Accordingly,	
tax was liable to be deducted when payments were made to overseas 
entities.Corporate Tax
Personal  Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Taxability of Employees 
secondment expenses
Mergers and Acquisitions
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC22Mergers and Acquisitions
Capital gains
Indirect transfer of capital assets situated in India not subject to 
capital gains tax 
Facts 
The Hutchison Group owned interest in an Indian operating company (HEL) 
through numerous overseas holding companies based in Mauritius and the 
Cayman Islands, including HTIL and CGP, two group companies based in 
the Cayman Islands. In 2007, Vodafone International BV (VIH) acquired 
sole ownership of CGP from HTIL, resulting in an indirect transfer of shares 
of HEL. No taxes were withheld by VIH under section 195 of the Income-
tax Act (the Act) when making payment to HTIL, on the grounds that the 
transaction was not taxable in India. VIH received a notice from the revenue 
authorities to show cause as to why it should not be treated as an assessee-
in-default for failure to withhold tax. The authorities contended that there 
was a transfer of a controlling interest in HEL, its shares were indirectly 
transferred and the transfer of CGP shares was a tax avoidance scheme. 
VIH	filed	a	writ	petition	with	the	Bombay	HC.	The	latter	dismissed	the	writ	
petition	and	VIH	filed	a	special	leave	petition	before	the	SC.
SC order
•	The	case	of	McDowell	and	Co	Ltd.	v.	CTO	[1985]	154	ITR	148	(SC)	
relates only to tax evasion through the use of colourable devices or 
dubious	methods.	Relying	on	Azadi	Bachao	Andolan	v	UOI	[2003]	
263 ITR 706 (SC), the SC held that a taxpayer is entitled to approach 
his affairs in such a manner as to ensure that his taxes are the lowest 
possible. Thus, not all tax planning is illegal. The task of the court is 
to ‘look at’ the transaction as a whole, in order to ascertain its true 
character, and not to adopt a dissecting approach.
•	 The expression ‘directly or indirectly’, contained in section 9 the Act, 
relates to income and not to a transfer of a capital asset. Thus, section 9 
does not extend to indirect transfers. 
•	 A controlling interest is a right embedded in shares and is not a 
separate property unless this is provided for in the statute. Accordingly, 
a transfer of a controlling interest in HEL from HTIL to VIH through a 
transfer of CGP shares cannot be dissected in such a way as to support 
the view that it is a transfer of a controlling interest in Mauritius entities 
and then HEL. •	 Furthermore, the parties did not agree a separate price in respect of the 
shares in CGP share and other rights and emoluments. Therefore, it is 
not open to the revenue to split the payment between these items.  
•	 It was also held that the purpose of the CGP was not only to hold shares 
in subsidiaries but also to enable a smooth transition of the business. 
Thus, it cannot be said that CGP had no commercial purpose.
On	this	basis,	the	SC	disagreed	with	the	conclusions	arrived	at	by	the	
Bombay HC and quashed the tax demand imposed.
Vodafone International Holding B V v. UOI [TS-23-SC-2012] 
Vesting of shares of an Indian company pursuant to an overseas 
upstream merger is not liable to capital gains tax
Facts
The applicant, Credit Suisse (International) Holding, a company 
incorporated	in	Switzerland,	is	a	wholly-owned	subsidiary	(WOS)	of	
another	Swiss	company,	C1	(the	parent	company).	The	applicant	had	a	WOS	
in India, Credit Suisse Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. (CS India). 
The applicant intended to merge with its parent company by way of a 
merger by absorption, under the provisions of the Swiss Merger Act. 
Consequent to this, all the assets and liabilities of the applicant would be 
taken	over	by	the	parent	company	and	 no	consideration	 would	flow	from	the	
parent to the applicant. 
Pre Merger Post Merger
Merger
Switzerland
India100% 100%Company CCompany C
Applicant
CS India CS IndiaCapital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Personal  Tax
PwC23The	issues	before	the	AAR	were	as	follows:
•	 Whether capital gains will arise under section 45 of the Act in the hands 
of the applicant due to the vesting of the shares of its Indian subsidiary 
with its parent company.
•	 If capital gains will arise, whether exemption from capital gains tax 
under section 47(via) of the Act will be available to the applicant.
AAR ruling 
The AAR held that there would be no capital gain by the applicant in India 
as	a	result	of	the	merger,	for	the	following	reasons:
•	Section	2(47)	of	the	Act	defines	‘transfer’	to	include	sale,	exchange	or	
relinquishment of an asset or the extinguishment of any right therein. 
Thus, a change in the ownership of the shares, from the applicant to the 
amalgamated company, will involve a transfer. 
•	 The taxability of the transaction will depend on whether the merger is 
an amalgamation under section 2(1B) of the Act and whether section 
47(via) exempts it. 
•	 Since the shareholders of the merging applicant company will not 
become shareholders of the amalgamated company, condition (iii) of 
section	2(1B)	requiring	shareholders	holding	at	least	75%	of	the	value	
of the shares of the amalgamating company to become shareholders of 
the	amalgamated	company,	will	not	be	satisfied.	
•	 While section 47(via) of the Act contains reduction with respect to the 
proportion of shareholding required, the condition itself cannot be met 
and accordingly the exemption will not be available to the applicant.
•	 However, while the transaction will attract section 45 of the Act, the 
AAR held that in view of the ruling in the case of Dana Corporation, 
In re [AAR No 788 of 2008], capital gains are not determinable under 
section 45 and section 48 of the Act. Accordingly, there will be no 
capital gains as a result of the merger. 
Credit Suisse (International) Holding AG, In re [TS-626-AAR-2012]Capital gains on direct and indirect transfer of shares of Indian 
company by Mauritius tax resident not taxable in India under the 
India-Mauritius tax treaty
Facts
Copal	Partners	Ltd.,	Jersey	(Copal	Jersey),	held	100%	shares	in	Copal	
Research	Ltd.,	Mauritius	(Copal	Mauritius).	The	latter,	in	turn,	held	100%	
shares in Copal Research India Pvt. Ltd., India (Copal India) and Copal 
Market Research Ltd., Mauritius (Copal Research MU). Copal Research 
MU	held	100%	shares	in	Exevo	Inc	US,	which	in	turn	held	100%	shares	in	
Exevo India Pvt. Ltd., India (Exevo India). Both Copal Mauritius and Copal 
Research	MU	held	tax	residency	certificates	(TRCs)	issued	by	the	Mauritius	
revenue authorities.
The	following	transactions	were	undertaken	by	Copal:
•	 Sale of shares in Copal India by Copal Mauritius to Moody’s Group Ltd. 
(Moody’s Cyprus)
•	 Sale of shares in Exevo Inc US by Copal Research MU to another US 
company– Moody’s Analytics, Inc (Moody’s USA)
The applicant sought an AAR ruling as to whether capital gains arising on 
the transfer were liable to tax in India.
Copal Jersey
Copal MauritiusMoody’s Cyprus
Copal India100% 100%
100%
100%100%
100% 100%
Copal Research MUMoody’s USA
Exevo Inc. US
Exevo India Pvt. Ltd
..... Transfer of shareholding Original	shareholdingMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC24AAR ruling
•	The	AAR,	relying	on	the	SC	decision	in	the	case	of	UOI	v	Azadi	Bachao	
Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706 (SC), held that what is relevant in the 
context of the tax treaty is not whether the income is actually taxed 
in Mauritius, but whether, in terms of the tax treaty, it can be taxed in 
Mauritius. 
•	 The AAR also held that the effective management of the companies 
takes	place	in	the	location	where	the	board	of	directors	(BOD)	
functions. There was nothing on record to show that the management 
of	the	Mauritius	companies	was	not	with	its	BOD.	Accordingly,	the	AAR	
held that the transferor companies were tax residents of Mauritius. 
•	 In the case of a company which is an independent legal entity, the 
theory	of	beneficial	ownership	does	not	prevail	over	the	apparent	legal	
ownership. A company recognises the recorded owner of the shares and 
not the person on whose behalf those shares may have been held. 
•	Accordingly,	the	AAR	held	that	the	capital	gains	flowing	Copal	
Mauritius (on direct transfer of shares of Copal India) and Copal 
Research MU (on indirect transfer of shares of Exevo India) would not 
be taxable in India by virtue of Article 13(4) of the tax treaty. 
Moody’s Analytics Inc, In re [2012] 24 Taxmann 41 (AAR)
Capital gains on transfer of shares in Indian company by a 
Mauritius company holding valid tax residency certificate, is not 
chargeable to tax under the India-Mauritius tax treaty
Facts
The applicant, Dynamic India Fund, is a company incorporated in Mauritius. 
Dynamic India Fund is registered with the Securities Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI) as a foreign venture capital investor. The applicant held a valid 
TRC from the Mauritius revenue authorities and did not have a PE in India. 
The control of the applicant’s affairs took place in Mauritius and decisions 
were	taken	by	the	BOD	from	Mauritius.	
The	applicant	is	a	WOS	of	Dynamic	India	Fund	II	(DIF	II),	another	company	
based in Mauritius. DIF II pools funds from investors all over the world and 
invests them as capital in the applicant.
The applicant invested the funds received in this way in the shares of Indian 
companies. It held the shares with the intention of generating long-term 
capital	appreciation.	These	shares	were	reflected	as	investment	in	its	books.	
The issue before the AAR was whether such transfer of shares is chargeable 
to tax in India.AAR ruling
•	 The AAR held that there is no material on record to show that routing 
of the investments by the applicant through Mauritius is a scheme for 
tax avoidance in India. Also, there were inadequate records to show 
that the applicant’s decisions were taken from India. 
•	Further,	relying	on	the	SC’s	decision	in	the	case	of	UOI	v	Azadi	Bachao	
Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706 (SC)), the AAR held that what is relevant 
in the context of the tax treaty is not whether the income is actually 
taxed in Mauritius, but whether, in terms of the tax treaty, it can be 
taxed in the country. 
•	 In the light of the above, the capital gains arising on the transfer of 
shares held in Indian companies will not be taxable in India under 
Article 13(4) of the India-Mauritius tax treaty.
Dynamic India Fund, In re [TS-513-AAR-2012]
Transfer pricing provisions apply even though transfer of shares 
in an Indian company by a Mauritius company is not subject to 
tax under the India-Mauritius tax treaty
Facts
The applicant, Castleton Investment Ltd., a company incorporated in 
Mauritius, holds shares in an Indian company. The applicant proposes to 
transfer its investment in the Indian company at fair value to an associated 
enterprise in Singapore (Singapore AE), through an off-market transaction. 
The	issues	before	the	AAR	were	as	follows:	
•	 Will capital gains arising on the transfer of shares be taxable in India?
•	 Will transfer pricing (TP) provisions be applicable, if the transaction is 
not taxable in India? 
•	 Should taxes be withheld on the consideration paid to the applicant in 
relation to the transfer of shares?
•	Is	the	applicant	required	to	file	a	return	of	income	under	section	139	of	
the Act if the transfer of shares is not taxable in India? 
•	 Will the minimum alternate tax (MAT) provisions under section 115JB 
of the Act be applicable to the applicant?Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC25AAR ruling
•	The	AAR,	relying	upon	the	ruling	of	the	SC	in	the	case	of	UOI	v.	Azadi	
Bachao Andolan [2003] 263 ITR 706 (SC), held that a transfer of the 
shares of an Indian company by a Mauritius company is not subject to 
capital gains tax in India under Article 13(4) of India-Mauritius tax 
treaty.
•	 The AAR held that, as per section 92 of the Act, TP provisions are 
applicable to ‘any income arising from an international transaction’, 
and that the word income had a wide connotation. Accordingly, TP 
provisions were applicable to all international transactions, irrespective 
of whether or not the ultimate gain or income is taxable in India. The 
AAR, relying upon the decision of the SC in the case of GE Technology 
Centre Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT [2010] 327 ITR 456 (SC), ruled that there is no 
obligation to withhold tax, if income is not chargeable to tax under the 
provisions of the Act. 
•	 The obligation under section 139 of the Act does not simply disappear 
on	account	of	the	non-taxability	of	the	income	under	the	beneficial	
provisions of the tax treaty. Therefore, the Mauritian company is 
required to submit its tax return in India.
•	 Further, since the MAT provisions under the Act do not distinguish 
between Indian and foreign companies, the MAT provisions apply to 
foreign companies.
Castleton Investment Ltd., In re [TS-607-AAR-2012]
Buy-back of shares by WOS taxable as capital gains
Facts
The	applicant	(a	German	company)	had	a	WOS	in	India	in	which	it	held	a	
99.99%	stake,	with	the	balance	of	0.01%	held	through	its	nominees.	The	
Indian company proposed to buy-back shares from the applicant. The buy-
back would result in a transfer of shares of the Indian company from the 
applicant to the Indian company.
The applicant approached the AAR for a ruling as to whether a transfer to 
the	WOS	of	the	shares	of	the	Indian	company	by	the	applicant,	in	the	course	
of the proposed buy-back of shares, will be exempt from tax in India in the 
hands of the applicant, in view of the provisions of section 47(iv) of the Act.
AAR ruling
•	 Section 46A of the Act provides that if a shareholder receives any 
consideration from any company for the purchase of its own shares, 
then, subject to the provisions of section 48 of the Act, the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the value of the consideration 
received by the shareholder shall be deemed to be the capital gains 
flowing	to	that	shareholder.	
•	 Section 45 of the Act is a general provision dealing with the transfer 
of	all	capital	assets.	On	the	other	hand,	section	46A	of	the	Act	can	
be understood as a special provision dealing with the purchase of 
company’s own shares by a company. Thus, section 46A of the Act 
would supersede the general provisions of section 45 of the Act. 
Therefore, there appears to be no reason to go into an enquiry as to 
whether section 46A of the Act is a charging section or not.
•	 Accordingly, section 46A of the Act will be applicable in a case of a buy-
back of shares. Further, section 46A of the Act is not subject to section 
47 of the Act, which at best only overrides section 45 of the Act. 
•	 Additionally, exemption under section 47(iv) of the Act postulates that 
a	company	must	hold	100%	shares	in	its	subsidiary	Indian	company,	
either directly or through its nominees. Since other companies were 
holding shares in the Indian company as nominees of the applicant, 
alongside the applicant, it cannot be postulated that the applicant held 
100%	of	the	shares	in	the	Indian	company.	
•	 Hence, the proposed buy-back of shares will be taxable as capital gains 
under section 46A of the Act and would not be exempt under section 
47(iv) of the Act.
RST, In re [TS-162-AAR-2012]
Applicability of capital gains tax, transfer pricing provisions 
and exemption under section 47(iv) on buy-back of shares of an 
Indian company
Facts
The applicant, Armstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd., is 
a	tax	resident	of	Mauritius	and	a	WOS	of	Armstrong	World	Industries	Ltd.,	
UK (Armstrong UK). Armstrong World Industries India Pvt. Ltd. (Armstrong 
India)	is	a	subsidiary	of	the	applicant.	The	latter	held	a	99.97%	stake	in	
Armstrong India and the remaining stake was held by Armstrong UK. 
Armstrong India proposed to buy-back a part of its shares from the applicant 
(under section 77A of the Companies Act, 1956).
The	issues	before	the	AAR	were	as	follows:	
•	 Whether the applicant is liable to capital gains tax in India on the buy-
back of such shares by Armstrong India.Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC26•	 Whether the transfer of Armstrong India’s shares by the applicant to the 
latter (in the course of the proposed buy-back of shares) will be exempt 
from capital gains tax in India in view of section 47(iv) of the Act.
•	 Whether the proposed buy-back of shares will attract the transfer 
pricing provisions of the Act.
AAR ruling
•	The	AAR	ruled	that	sufficient	evidence	had	not	been	produced	by	
the income tax authorities to substantiate the argument that the 
investments were made through the applicant, a Mauritius company, 
to take advantage of the India-Mauritius tax treaty and to avoid tax in 
India.	Relying	on	the	SC’s	decision	in	the	case	of	UOI	v	Azadi	Bachao	
Andolan [2004] 10 SCC 1 (SC), the AAR held that, based on the facts 
presented,	the	assessee	was	eligible	to	claim	the	benefits	of	the	India-
Mauritius tax treaty and capital gains will not be taxable in India. 
•	 The AAR, placing reliance on the ruling in the case of RST In re [AAR 
1067	of	2011],	held	that	the	benefit	of	section	47(iv)	of	the	Act	will	not	
be available as the entire share capital of Armstrong India was not held 
by the assessee but was jointly held by the assessee and Armstrong UK.
•	 The AAR also placed reliance on the ruling in Castleton Investment 
Ltd. In re [AAR 999 of 2010] in holding that the transaction was an 
international transaction between related parties and the TP provisions 
would be applicable to such a transaction.
Armstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd., In re [TS-628-AAR-2012]
Gains arising on sale of compulsorily convertible debentures re-
characterised as interest, benefit of capital gains exemption under 
the India-Mauritius tax treaty denied 
Facts 
The applicant, a Mauritius based company, entered into a shareholders’ 
agreement (SHA) and with ‘V’, an Indian company, and a share subscription 
agreement (SSA) with V’s its subsidiary, ‘S’. Pursuant to the SHA, the 
applicant	invested	money	in	S	in	the	form	of	equity	shares	and	zero	percent	
compulsorily convertible debentures (CCDs). The applicant was given a put 
option to sell and V was given a call option to acquire the equity shares and 
CCDs	at	a	pre-determined	price,	at	specified	intervals.	V	exercised	the	call	
option to purchase the entire stake held by the applicant in S which resulted 
in capital gains in the hands of the applicant. The issue before the AAR was whether the gain on the sale by the Mauritius 
company of equity shares and CCDs in an Indian company is exempt under 
Article 13(4) of the India-Mauritius tax treaty.
AAR ruling
•	 The SHA provided for the calculation of the purchase price after 
including accrued return on the cost of investment within the range 
of	20%	to	30%,	compounded	quarterly,	depending	on	the	period	of	
holding of the investment by the applicant.
•	 The aforementioned method of calculating the purchase price 
constituted	‘interest’,	falling	within	the	definition	of	interest	both	under	
the	Act	and	the	treaty	as	the	definition	of	‘interest’	was	wide	enough	to	
cover any type of income payable on debentures.
•	The	conversion	of	debentures	into	equity	at	the	end	of	the	specified	
period constituted a constructive repayment of debt. Hence, the 
amount paid by V was towards debt and the interest thereon. 
•	 The AAR also noted that S did not exercise any power in managing its 
own affairs and was controlled and managed by V. Thus, S and V were 
the identical. It was for V to demonstrate commitment to pay the debt 
and the amount paid by it was clearly towards the debt taken by S from 
the applicant. 
•	 Accordingly, the AAR held that the appreciation in the value of CCDs 
was in the nature of payment of interest and was taxable under Article 
11 of the tax treaty. 
Z, In re [TS-198-AAR-2012]Overseas
Equity/ 
CCDs
Equity/ 
(>50%)Transfer of 
Equity/CCDs
IndiaZ- Applicant 
(Mauritius)
SVMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC27Gift of shares prior to June 2010 treated as capital receipt, 
exempted under section 47(iii)
Facts
The assessee, an Indian Company, and British India Steam Navigation Co 
(BISNCL),	a	UK-based	company,	are	WOSs	of	Peninsular	and	Oriental	Steam	
Navigation Co (UK). BISNCL held shares in an Indian company, Hill Park 
Ltd. (HPL). By virtue of this holding, BISNCL was BISNCL became the owner 
of	three	residential	flats.	During	assessment	year	(AY)	2008-09,	BISNCL	
gifted	the	shares	in	HPL	to	the	assessee,	and	this	involved	gifting	the	flats	as	
well.
The	assessee	claimed	exemption	on	a	gift	of	shares	and	flats	under	section	
47(iii) of the Act.
The	TO	treated	the	gift	of	shares	as	a	colourable	transaction	and	treated	
the	receipt	of	the	flats	as	‘income	from	other	sources’	under	section	56(1),	
on the grounds that the basic condition for making gifts, that of love and 
affection,	does	not	exist	between	artificial	entities.	The	TO	also	held	that	the	
transfer was made for business convenience but was only presented as a gift.
The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	order	of	the	TO	and	treated	the	gift	as	income.	
It	held	that	the	income	is	taxable	as	profits	and	gains	from	business	and	
profession under section 28(iv) of the Act.
Tribunal order
•	Since	gift	is	not	defined	in	the	Act,	the	Tribunal	imported	its	meaning	
from the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, and observed that there is no 
restriction that a ‘gift’ can be made only between natural persons out of 
love and affection. Therefore, a company can gift shares and although 
such a transaction may appear to a ‘strange’ transaction it cannot be 
treated as a ‘non-genuine’ transaction.
•	 The Tribunal also held that a company can gift shares as long as the 
articles of association of the company and the laws of the country 
where it is incorporated permit it to do so. In this case, it was factually 
established that BISNCL was authorised to make the gift.
•	 The Tribunal held that the gift of shares received constitutes a receipt 
of	capital	and	it	cannot	be	said	to	be	a	benefit	or	perquisite	arising	from	
business. Inter-group gifts do not necessarily imply business dealings.
•	 The Tribunal also examined the recent amendments to section 56 of 
the Act treating gifts of shares between companies as other income. The 
Tribunal held that these amendments are applicable to transactions 
carried out after June 2010. Therefore, they were not attracted to the 
case in question.•	 Accordingly, the Tribunal held that the gift of shares constituted a 
receipt	of	capital	and	not	taxable	in	view	of	the	specific	exemption	
available under section 47(iii) of the Act. 
DP World Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-767-ITAT-2012(Mum)]
Depreciation
Goodwill arising on amalgamation is an asset eligible for 
depreciation
Facts
YSN	Shares	and	Securities	Pvt.	Ltd.	(YSN)	amalgamated	with	the	assessee	
in accordance with a scheme sanctioned by the HC of Bombay and Calcutta. 
The excess consideration paid over the value of the net assets acquired from 
YSN	was	considered	as	goodwill	arising	on	amalgamation.	Tax	depreciation	
on goodwill was claimed, treating the goodwill as an intangible asset under 
section	32	of	the	Act.	The	TO	rejected	the	claim	on	the	basis	that	goodwill	is	
not	an	intangible	as	defined	in	Explanation	3	to	section	32(1)	of	the	Act,	and	
the assessee had not paid any consideration for the same. 
The CIT(A) and the Tribunal ruled in favour of the assessee and noted 
that	in	the	process	of	amalgamation,	the	assets	and	liabilities	of	YSN	were	
transferred to the assessee for a consideration and the difference between 
the cost of assets and the amount paid constituted goodwill. Thus, it was 
held that the assessee, in the process of amalgamation had acquired a 
capital right in the form of goodwill, because of which the market worth 
of the assessee was increased. This aspect was not challenged by the tax 
department	during	a	further	appeal	before	the	HC.	The	HC	affirmed	the	
claim of the assessee and the department appealed to the SC.
SC order
•	 The SC held that Explanation 3 to section 32(1) of the Act states that 
the expression ‘asset’ means an intangible asset, being know-how, 
patents, copyrights, trademarks, licences, franchises or any other 
business or commercial rights of a similar nature. 
•	 The principle of ejusdem generis will strictly apply when interpreting 
the said expression which is mentioned in Explanation 3(b). The SC 
accordingly held that goodwill will fall under the expression ‘any other 
business or commercial right of a similar nature’ under 32(1)(ii) of the 
Act. 
•	 As well as holding the above, the SC also observed that the department 
had not challenged the fact that the assessee acquired a capital right in 
the form of goodwill in the process of amalgamation. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC28•	 In Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. v. CIT [TS-682-HC-2012 (Bom)], the 
assessee, Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. purchased a catering business on 
a slump-sale, from Indian Hotels Company Ltd. As per the valuation 
report, the consideration was apportioned to assets and goodwill which 
was capitalised in the books of account, and depreciation was claimed 
under section 32 of the Act.
•	 The tax authorities disallowed the depreciation on goodwill which was 
confirmed	by	the	Tribunal.	
•	 The HC, relying on the SC’s decision in the case of CIT v Smifs 
Securities Ltd., held that the assessee was entitled to make 
depreciation. The HC acknowledged the goodwill as an intangible asset 
eligible for depreciation under section 32 of the Act.
CIT v Smifs Securities Ltd. [TS-639-SC-2012]
Gift of shares
AAR doubts genuineness of inter-corporate gifts, terms them a 
strange transaction
Facts
The	applicant,	Orient	Green	Power	Pte.	Ltd.,	is	a	company	incorporated	in	
Singapore. The applicant has investments in the following two companies in 
India:
•	99.61%	in	Orient	Green	Power	Ltd.	(Orient	India)
•	49.75%	in	Bharath	Wind	Farm	Ltd.	(Bharath	India).	
The	balance	stake	in	Bharath	India	is	held	by	Orient	India.	The	applicant	
transferred	its	49.75%	stake	in	Bharath	India	to	Orient	India,	without	
consideration, as a ‘gift’, by executing a gift deed on 30 January, 2010.
The issue raised for the AAR’s consideration was whether the transfer 
to	Orient	India	of	shares	in	Bharath	India	by	the	applicant	without	
consideration would qualify for exemption under section 47(iii) of the Act.
AAR ruling
•	 The AAR observed that an oral gift between two corporations is a 
strange transaction and could only be aiding tax avoidance. 
•	 In its view, gifts involve an individual, a joint Hindu family or any 
other	human	agency,	since	section	47(iii)	of	the	Act	specifically	deals	
with cases of ‘any transfer of a capital asset through a gift, or a will or an irrecoverable trust’. Also, transactions between corporations are 
specifically	covered	by	sections	47(iv)	and	47(v)	of	the	Act,	dealing	
with transactions between a holding company and its subsidiary.
•	 Accordingly, the AAR was of the view that a gift of shares by companies 
should not be covered within the ambit of exemption provided section 
47(iii) of the Act. 
•	However,	the	AAR	declined	to	give	a	final	ruling	on	this	matter	and	
referred the matter to the assessing authorities for further examination. 
Orient Green Power Pte Ltd. In re [TS-608-AAR-2012]
Gift of shares by shareholders to a company not a sham 
transaction and the subsequent sale results in capital gains 
Facts
The assessee, Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd., was incorporated 
as an investment company. Two directors of the company transferred to the 
assessee shares in Infosys Technologies Ltd. by way of a gift, under a gift 
deed.	Out	The	assessee	sold	some	of	these	shares	and	the	balance	of	the	
shares was shown as investment in its books. 
Income arising on sale of such shares was treated as capital gains by the 
assessee	and	was	accordingly	offered	to	tax	in	its	tax	return.	The	TO	held	
that a gift of shares to a company by its shareholders amounted to gifting 
to	oneself	and	hence	was	not	a	genuine	transaction.	Further,	the	TO	noted	
that the main object of the company was to deal in shares and, therefore, 
the	TO	assessed	the	gains	on	sale	of	shares	as	business	income.	On	appeal,	
the CIT(A) and the Tribunal ruled in favour of the assessee. The revenue 
authorities	filed	an	appeal	before	the	Karnataka	HC.	
High Court order
The	HC	held	as	follows:
•	 In common parlance, a gift is a transfer by one person to another, of 
existing movable or immovable property made voluntarily and without 
consideration, and includes the deemed transfer or conversion of any 
property.
•	 The gift of shares to the assessee was a valid and genuine transaction as 
the assessee was a separate legal entity and there was no restriction on 
the gifting of shares by the shareholders to the company.
•	 The HC observed that the assessee was only an investment company 
engaged in buying, acquiring, investing in and holding shares and 
merely	because	the	company	earned	profits	from	the	sale	of	shares	did	Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC29not mean that the company is engaged in the trading of shares. 
•	 Furthermore, the HC relied on the SC ruling in the case of CIT v. 
Sutlej Cotton Mills Supply Agency [1975] 110 ITR 706 (SC) and G. 
Venkataswamy Naidu and Co. [1959] 35 ITR 594 (SC) and held 
that a solitary sale of shares by the assessee could not be treated as 
constituting a trade or business in shares. 
CIT v. Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd. [TS-656-HC-2012 (KAR)]
Tax exemption/planning
Change in ownership would not constitute reconstruction and tax 
holiday available after slump sale  
Facts
•	Indian	Organic	Chemicals	Ltd.	(IOCL),	the	assesee,	had	set	up	Sonata	
Software	Division,	which	consisted	of	two	parts:	(i)	a	software	
technology park (STP) undertaking, eligible for exemption under 
section 10A of the Act; and (ii) A non-STP undertaking.
•	IOCL	transferred	its	software	division	as	a	going	concern	in	a	slump	sale	
to the assessee.
•	 The assessee claimed exemption under section 10A of the Act in respect 
of the income from the STP undertaking.
•	The	TO	denied	the	exemption	claimed	by	the	assessee	under	section	
10A	on	the	following	grounds:	
•	 The STP undertaking was formed by the splitting up or reconstruction 
of a business already in existence, as the same business was carried on 
by	IOCL	before	it	was	carried	on	by	the	assessee.
	−All the assets and liabilities, including plant and machinery, 
previously used were transferred to the assessee.
•	The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	order	of	the	TO.	However,	the	Tribunal	held	that	
where an ongoing business is transferred lock-stock-and-barrel by one 
assessee to another assessee, the principle relating to reconstruction, 
splitting up and transfer of plant and machinery cannot be applied.High Court order
•	 The HC relied on the decision of the division bench in CIT v. Gaekwar 
Foam & Rubber Company [1959] 35 ITR 662 (Bom) (which was also 
approved by the SC in Textile Machinery Corporation Ltd v. CIT [1977] 
107	ITR	195	(SC)),	in	which	the	following	was	held:
	−If substantially the same business is carried on by substantially the 
same persons, this would amount to reconstruction.
	−Where the ownership of a business or undertaking changes, this 
would not be regarded as reconstruction.
•	 In this case in question, the entire business of the software undertaking 
was transferred as a ‘going concern’ to the assessee. Thus, the 
undertaking of the assessee was not formed by a splitting up of the 
business and therefore the exemption under section 10A was available 
to the assessee for the unexpired period of the tax holiday.
CIT v. Sonata Software Ltd. [TS-164-HC-2012(BOM)]
Tax planning within the legal framework of the law is permissible
Facts
Allotment 
of shares
Merger
Unichem LabsPromoter Public 
Shareholders
Transferor 
CompaniesMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC30•	 Five companies (transferor companies) were being merged into 
Unichem Laboratories Ltd. (Unichem Labs), a listed company, under a 
scheme of arrangement.
•	 The assets of the transferor companies predominantly consisted of 
shares in Unichem Labs.
•	 The scheme provided for the cancellation of shares held by the 
transferor companies in Unichem Labs and the allotment of shares to 
the shareholders of the transferor companies, i.e. promoters.
•	 A minority shareholder of Unichem Labs objected to the scheme, on the 
grounds that the objective of the scheme was to avoid capital gains tax 
on the transfer of shares held by the transferor companies in Unichem 
Labs to the promoters.
High Court order
The	HC	held	as	follows:	
•	 The object of the scheme is legitimate. It provides long-term stability 
and transparency. Furthermore, it is permissible under the law and is 
not a colourable device designed to avoid tax.
•	 Every transaction or arrangement which is permissible under the law 
which has the result of reducing the tax burden of an assessee should 
not be treated as a tax avoidance device (reliance was placed on the 
SC	decision	in	case	of	UOI	v.	Azadi	Bachao	Andolan	[2004]	10	SCC	1	
(SC)).
•	 Unichem Labs cannot be at fault if the objective was to be achieved 
through one of the alternate options available.
•	In	the	case	of	UOI	v.	Ambalal	Sarabhai	Enterprises	Ltd	[1984]	147	ITR	
294 (Guj), the Gujarat HC sanctioned the scheme, despite the fact that 
the transaction incidentally led to a reduction in tax costs.
•	 Relying on the judgement of the Division Bench of the Bombay HC in 
the case of Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. [2003] 45 SCL 475 (Bom), 
the HC held that the income-tax authorities are not required to be 
heard while sanctioning a scheme under sections 391 to 394 of the 
Companies Act, 1956. 
AVM Capital Services Pvt. Ltd. [TS-512-HC-2012 (BOM)]Transaction within four corners of law can be treated as ‘sham’ 
and ‘colourable device’ by looking at ‘human probabilities’
Facts 
The assessee, Killick Nixon Ltd., had provided a guarantee of INR 100 
crore	to	Vysya	Bank	Ltd.	for	extending	financial	facilities	to	another	group	
company. When the guarantee was invoked, the assessee agreed to transfer 
the	land	it	owned	in	FY	2000-01	to	the	bank	at	a	substantial	gain.	In	the	
same year, these gains were set off against short-term and long-term capital 
loss arising from sale of shares. 
The	TO	disallowed	the	set-off	of	loss	stating	that	the	transaction	was	
a	'sham'.	In	this	regard,	it	was	noted	by	the	TO	that	in	FY	1999-00,	the	
assessee received funds from group entities and made investments in its 
subsidiary companies at a premium of INR 140 per share, although the fair 
value was less than INR 25 per share. These funds were then transferred by 
the subsidiary companies to another group company. 
Thereafter, in the relevant year, the assessee sold the shares at a value of 
INR 5 per share and the loss which arose was set off against gain on sale of 
land.	Thus,	the	TO	concluded	that	the	assessee	was	conscious	of	the	gain	on	
sale	of	land,	and	therefore,	sold	the	shares	at	a	loss.	Thus,	the	TO	disallowed	
the capital loss on the sale of shares.  
The	CIT(A)	and	the	Tribunal	upheld	the	findings	of	the	TO	and	rejected	the	
transaction involving investment in subsidiaries and sale of their shares, 
considering this to be a sham.
High Court order
The HC relied on the decision of SC in case of Vodafone International B.V.I 
v.	UOI	[2012]	204	Taxman	408	(SC)	in	holding	that	as	the	transaction	
undertaken by the taxpayer was a sham, it could not be considered a part of 
tax planning or legitimate reduction of tax liability. Thus, the HC concluded 
that the sale and purchase of shares by the assessee to consider the capital 
loss was a sham transaction.
Killick Nixon Ltd v. DCIT [TS-148-HC-2012(BOM)]Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC31Negative net worth to be added to sale consideration for 
determining capital gains on slump sale
Facts
•	 The assessee company is engaged in the business of real estate, 
investment, manufacturing of transmission line towers and undertaking 
turnkey projects in India and abroad. In a scheme of arrangement 
under the Companies Act, 1956, the assessee transferred its power 
transmission business (the undertaking) to KEC International Ltd. by 
way of a slump sale, for a consideration of INR 143 crore. In its audit 
report, the company declared the net worth of the undertaking as a 
negative sum of INR 1570 million. 
•	 The assessee relied on the ruling in the case of Zuari Industries v. ACIT 
[2007] 105 ITD 569 (Mum) and Paperbase Co. Ltd. v. CIT [2008] 19 
SOT163	(Del)	and	offered	the	sale	consideration	of	INR	143	crore	as	
long-term capital gains under section 50B of the Act. 
•	The	TO	computed	capital	gains	of	INR	300	crore	on	the	slump	sale	of	
the undertaking (declared sales consideration of INR 143 crore plus 
additional liabilities taken over amounting to INR 157 crore).
Tribunal order
•	 The Tribunal held that in determining the full-value of the 
consideration, only the ‘amount actually received or accruing’ is 
relevant and not what ‘ought to have been received’ or the ‘fair market 
value of the capital asset’.
•	 The expressions ‘net worth’ and ‘cost’ used in section 50B of the Act 
are in the context of an undertaking and refer to ‘all assets minus 
all liabilities’. Section 50B contemplates the computation of ‘cost of 
acquisition and cost of improvement’ of the undertaking which includes 
within its ambit ‘the liabilities of such undertaking or unit or division’.
•	 If the book value of all the liabilities is more than the book value of all 
the assets, it is quite natural that the capital gains on the transfer of 
the undertaking will be more than the full value of the consideration 
because the value of liabilities undertaken by the transferee is 
embedded in the undertaking and has the effect of reducing the full 
value of the consideration.
•	 Therefore, in the case of a slump sale of an undertaking having negative 
net worth, the negative net worth cannot form part of the full value of 
consideration. However, this value does need to be added to the sale 
consideration when computing capital gains.
DCIT v. Summit Securities Ltd. [TS-140-ITAT-2012(Mum)]Corporate law developments 
Company law
Amendment relating to change in registered office of a company 
from one state to another
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has amended the Companies (Central 
Government’s) General Rules and Forms, 1956, by inserting Rule 4BBB 
which came into effect on 12 August 2012. Rule 4BBB contains a procedure 
for	changing	the	registered	office	of	a	company	from	one	state	to	another	
under the provisions of section 17 of the Companies Act, 1956. This 
procedure was earlier laid down in the Company Law Board Regulations, 
1991. 
The	important	changes	in	the	process	of	changing	a	registered	office	under	
Rule	4BBB	are	summarised	below:
•	Changes	relating	to	filing	a	petition:	A	company	which	wishes	to	
change	its	registered	office	from	one	state	to	another	is	required	to	file	
a	petition	before	the	regional	director	in	prescribed	forms:	Form	1	and	
Form 24AAA. Under the erstwhile regulations, it was required that an 
application	be	filed	with	the	Company	Law	Board	and	no	specific	form	
was	prescribed	for	filing	this	application.			
•	Change	in	cut-off	date	for	certain	documents:	The	cut-off	date	for	the	
list	of	creditors	and	debenture	holders	which	it	is	required	be	filed	
along with the petition (which must state the name, address and the 
amount due to these creditors or debenture holders), shall not precede 
the	date	the	petition	is	filed	by	more	than	one	month	(it	had	previously	
been two months).
Notification no. G.S.R. (E) dated 10 July 2012
Scheme of arrangement for transfer of passive infrastructure 
assets for nil consideration without transfer of liabilities
Facts
Vodafone	Essar	Gujarat	Limited	(VEGL)	had	filed	a	scheme	of	arrangement	
under sections 391 to 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 for demerger of its 
passive infrastructure assets (PIA) (without transfer of liabilities) from 
seven group companies to Vodafone Essar Infrastructure Ltd. (VEIL) for 
a nil consideration. The scheme had been rejected by the Gujarat HC in 
December	2010	and	a	revision	petition	was	filed	by	VEGL	with	the	division	
bench of Gujarat HC.Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC32The income-tax authorities (ITA) challenged the scheme, contending that 
its sole object was to avoid payment of tax by transferring PIA to VEIL at nil 
consideration and subsequently merging VEIL with Indus. Further, since 
no liabilities were transferred, the transfer was not a demerger for tax 
purposes.
High Court order
The	Gujarat	HC	considered	the	following	two	factors:	(i)	whether	the	ITA	
have locus standi to raise objections to the scheme and (ii) whether the sole 
object of the scheme was avoidance of tax.
The	HC	held	as	follows:
•	 Since there are dues payable by VEGL to the ITA, the ITA are creditors 
of VEGL and accordingly have locus standi in terms of raising objections 
to the scheme. 
•	 The sole object of the scheme was not tax avoidance as there are 
commercial	benefits	of	the	proposed	transaction	(such	as	improved	
quality of services to customers, maximisation of business value and 
conversion of non-revenue generating assets into revenue generating 
assets) and the reconstruction is in line with government policies and 
global trends.  
•	 There is no bar that restrains a transaction from being treated 
differently under different laws and, accordingly, the transfer by way 
of the scheme can be treated as a gift (and not demerger) under the 
Income-tax Act.
•	 The same scheme has been approved by other HCs and similar 
contentions of the ITA have been quashed by Delhi HC. 
Accordingly, the scheme was approved by the HC. It further noted that 
pending proceedings by the tax authorities against the transferor company 
shall not be affected in view of the HC’s sanctioning of the scheme.
Vodafone Essar Gujarat Ltd. v. DIT [Company Petition no 183 of 2009]
Objection by third parties to a scheme of arrangement to be 
considered independently   
Facts
Essar Telecommunications Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (the transferor) proposed 
to amalgamate with India Securities Ltd. (the transferee) such that the 
entire undertaking of the transferor would be transferred to the transferee. 
The scheme was sanctioned by the shareholders of both companies. The 
regional director’s report stated that SEBI had forwarded it a letter received from Vodafone International B.V. (objector) stating that it should also be 
admitted	as	a	party	to	the	petition.	The	transferor	indirectly	held	a	100%	
stake in ETHL Communications Holding Ltd. (ECHL) which in turn holds 
10.97%	stake	in	Vodafone	Essar	Ltd	(VEL),	the	remaining	stake	being	held	
by the objector. 
The Income Tax Department (ITD) also objected to the scheme stating that a 
tax demand was pending against the transferor’s holding company. 
High Court order
The HC held that the only parties who can object to the scheme are either 
the shareholders or the creditors of the company. The provisions of section 
391	of	the	Companies	Act,	1956,	does	not	envisage	the	filing	of	objections	
by a third party whose rights might be affected by a scheme of arrangement. 
A remedy with regard to enforcement of rights by third parties was to be 
independently availed of and could not be a reason to object to the scheme 
of arrangement. The HC thus held that since VEL was neither a creditor 
nor a shareholder of the transferor or the transferee company, it could not 
file	the	application.	Furthermore,	the	HC	also	rejected	the	objection	of	the	
ITD stating that no claim was pending against the transferor and transferee 
company.
It was held that the only objection which could be raised by any person in 
response to a notice could be with respect to the legality of the scheme or 
to its being in violation of any law. In the absence of any violation, merely 
because certain rights of a third party were going to be affected, could not 
be	a	reason	to	permit	a	third	party	to	file	an	objection	to	the	scheme.
Essar Telecommunications Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and India Securities Ltd. [2012] 106 
CLA 95 (Chennai)
Stamp duty
Court order sanctioning a scheme of amalgamation or demerger 
is an instrument and conveyance liable to stamp duty
Facts
A scheme of amalgamation under section 391 to 394 of the Companies 
Act,	1956,	was	filed	by	Emami	Biotech	Ltd.	in	the	state	of	West	Bengal.	
The assessee contended that an order of the court will not amount to an 
‘instrument’	unless	this	is	specifically	provided	for	and	since	there	is	no	
specific	entry	relating	to	mergers	in	the	schedule	of	the	West	Bengal	Stamp	
Act, an order of the court cannot amount to an instrument on which stamp 
duty can be levied. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC33High Court order
To determine the applicability of the SC’s decision in the case of Hindustan 
Lever Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra [2004] 9 SCC 438(SC), the HC compared 
the relevant provision of the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958, with the West Bengal 
Stamp	Act,	1964,	and	observed	that	the	definition	of	an	‘instrument’	in	both	
Acts was similar and observed that the ratio of SC’s decision in the case of 
Hindustan Lever Ltd. would be applicable in the present case.
The HC relied on the SC’s observations in the Hindustan Lever case and held 
that an order passed under section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956, is based 
on the agreement (consent) which would make such an order an instrument 
which is leviable to stamp duty. 
The court also referred to its earlier judgment in the case of Gemini Silk 
Ltd.	v.	Gemini	Overseas	Ltd.	[2003]	114	Comp	Cas	92	(Cal.)	in	which	it	had	
held that orders sanctioning schemes in the state of West Bengal would 
be subject to stamp duty. The court also referred to the judgments of the 
Allahabad, Delhi and Madras HCs, rendered after the SC’s pronouncement 
in the Hindustan Lever case.
The court, thus, held that an order sanctioning a scheme under section 
394 of the Act falls within the description of the words ‘instrument’ and 
‘conveyance’ within the meaning of the West Bengal Stamp Act and that the 
scheme is subject to stamp duty. 
In	respect	of	the	notification	dated	16	January	1937,	providing	remission	of	
stamp duty under Article 23 (which applies to conveyance) of Schedule I to 
the	Indian	Stamp	Act,	1889,	the	court	held	that	the	said	notification	is	not	
applicable in West Bengal as the state legislature, by an overt act, has taken 
Article 23 outside the purview of Schedule I and placed it in Schedule IA to 
the West Bengal Stamp Act, 1964.
Emami Biotech Ltd. v. State of West Bengal [Company Application No. 777 of 
2011]SEBI
Manner of achieving minimum public shareholding
SEBI has directed the promoters of listed entities to dilute their stake so as to 
meet	the	minimum	public	shareholding	(25%	for	private	sector	companies	
and	10%	for	PSU’s)	requirements.	Accordingly,	SEBI	has	made	amendments	
to clause 40A of the equity listing agreement vide circular CIR/CFD/
DIL/1/2012 dated February 8, 2012, and circular CIR/CFD/DIL/11/2012 
dated 29 August, 2012.
To facilitate compliance by listed entities with the minimum shareholding 
requirements	within	the	specified	time,	SEBI	initially	allowed	the	following	
methods:
•	 Issuance of shares to public through prospectus
•	Offer	for	sale	of	shares	held	by	the	promoters	to	public	through	
prospectus
•	 Sale of shares held by promoters through the secondary market under 
the terms of SEBI Circular CIR/MRD/DP/18/2012 dated 18 July 2012
•	 Institutional placement programme (IPP) under terms of Chapter VIIIA 
of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009, as amended.
The following additional avenues have now also been made available to 
promoters,	to	assist	them	in	complying	with	the	regulations:
•	 Rights issue to public shareholders, with promoters/ promoter group 
shareholders forgoing their rights entitlement
•	 Bonus issue to public shareholders, with promoters/ promoter group 
shareholders forgoing their bonus entitlement
The shares would be allotted only to public shareholders under such rights 
and bonus issues.
Furthermore, listed entities desirous of seeking any relaxation from the 
available methods or achieving the minimum shareholding requirement 
through other means may seek the regulator’s approval for the same.Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC34Different promoter groups cannot be deemed to be persons acting 
in concert (PAC) unless they share common objective or purpose of 
a substantial acquisition of shares of a target company
Facts
The target company (TC) had two promoter groups, and there was a 
serious rift amongst them. The TC converted share warrants held by the 
promoters into equity shares and one promoter group also acquired the 
shares	of	the	TC	from	the	market.	On	conversion	of	the	aforesaid	warrants	
and acquisitions from the market, the shareholding of the promoter group, 
increased	from	an	aggregate	53.36%	to	55.18%,	which	resulted	in	the	
triggering of an open offer under the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
& Takeover) Regulations, 2011 (Takeover Code).
However, no public announcement was made by the appellants in this 
regard. The Board issued a show cause notice for the same. The appellants 
denied that they were PAC within the meaning of the Takeover Code on the 
grounds that there was serious rift between promoters. 
The issue in consideration is whether co-promoters of TC, merely by reason 
of being co-promoters, can be presumed to be PAC.
SAT order
The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT), relying on the decision of the SC 
in the case of Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd. [2010] 103 SCL 1 (SC), observed that 
there can be no PAC unless the different groups share the common objective 
or purpose of a substantial acquisition of the shares of the target company. 
The idea of a PAC is not that it is a fortuitous relationship coming into 
existence	by	accident	or	chance.	Furthermore,	there	is	sufficient	evidence	to	
show that there were disputes between the promoter groups and the onus 
was on the Board to prove otherwise.
Accordingly, the SAT set aside the impugned order and referred the matter 
to the Board for it to issue a fresh order.
Nikhil Mansukhani [SAT Order dated 11 May, 2012] Indirect transfer of shares in TC by way of settlement in a trust 
pursuant to a family arrangement is exempt with respect to 
Takeover Code
Facts
Dr. Reddy’s Holdings Ltd. (DRHL) was one of the promoters of Dr. Reddy’s 
Laboratories	Limited	(Target	Company	or	TC)	and	held	23.08%	in	the	TC.	
Dr.	Reddy’s	family	held	83.17%	shares	in	DRHL.	Dr	Reddy’s	family	proposed	
to transfer their holding in DRHL to a private family trust (in which Dr 
Reddy’s family members are the trustees), by way of gift or settlement.
Pursuant to the transfer, the shareholding of the acquirer (i.e. the family 
trust)	along	with	the	promoters	would	go	up	to	25.61%,	which	would	result	
in the triggering of an open offer under the SEBI Takeover Code.
Exemption from making the open offer in terms of regulation 3(1) of the 
Takeover code, was sought under regulation 11(1).
SEBI order
SEBI granted an exemption to the acquirer from the requirement of 
making an open offer on the grounds that the transaction was taking place 
between the same set of individuals (i.e. the trustees of the family trust and 
promoters of the TC). Moreover, pursuant to the aforementioned indirect 
acquisition there will be no change in the promoter’s shareholding and also 
in the control or management of the TC. Thus, the indirect acquisition will 
not affect or prejudice the interests of the public shareholders of the TC in 
any manner.
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd [Exemption order dated 3 May 2012] 
Competition law
The Competition Commission (Procedure in regard to the transaction of 
business relating to combinations) Amendment Regulations, 2012
•	 Amendments to Schedule I - Categories of combinations which 
are ordinarily not likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on 
competition	in	India	and	for	which	notification	need	not	normally	be	
filed	are	as	follows:		
	−Acquisition	without	control	of	up	to	25%	(earlier	15%)	of	the	total	
shares/voting rights
	−Acquisition of share or voting rights pursuant to buyback of shares 
and subscription to rights issue of shares, not leading to acquisition 
of controlMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC35	−New	categories:	Merger/amalgamation	involving	holding	company	
and its subsidiary; and/or mergers/amalgamations involving 
subsidiaries, wholly owned by enterprises belonging to the same 
group   
•	 Applicability of Forms I or Form II
	−The indicative list of instances of combinations in relation to which 
the	former	Form	I	could	be	filed	was	removed.
	−Two	indicative	instances	where	Form	II	is	preferred	for	filing:	
	−Where the parties to the combination are engaged in 
•	a similar business and the combined market share after such a 
combination	exceeds	15%	of	the	relevant	market;	and
•	different levels of the production chain in different markets and 
their	individual	or	combined	market	share	exceeds	25%	of	the	
relevant market.
•	Form	I	requires	the	following	additional	information:
	−Value of assets and turnover, in a tabular form
	−Information earlier covered under Part II to be provided in all cases
	−Copies of approval of the proposal of the merger or amalgamation 
by the board of directors and/or other document executed in 
relation to the acquisition or acquiring of control
•	Summary	of	the	combination	to	be	filed	separately	along	with	Form	I	or	
II	(in	at	least	2,000	words):	
	−The	summary	should	not	include	any	confidential	information,	but	
must include details of the business, value of cumulative assets or 
turnover, respective markets of operations, proposal agreements 
and the likely impact of combination on the competition.
•	 The fees for Form I and Form II have been increased to INR 1 million 
and INR 4 million respectively.
•	Form	III	is	to	be	filed	by	a	public	financial	institution,	financial	
institutional investor, bank or venture capital fund, where the 
acquisition is pursuant to any covenant of a loan or investment 
agreement. 
	−Supporting	document	to	be	filed	with	From	III:	Certified	copy	of	
such loan agreement or investment agreement
	−Delayed	filing	of	Form	III	with	CCI:	Can	be	condoned,	at	CCI’s	
discretionCompetition Commission of India approves the amalgamation of 
Mauritius subsidiary into its Indian holding company 
Facts
Tata	Chemicals	Ltd	(TCL)	proposed	to	merge	its	100%	subsidiary,	Wyoming	
I (Mauritius) Pvt. Ltd. (Wyoming), a Mauritian company, with itself. In this 
regard,	TCL	and	Wyoming	(collectively	parties	to	the	combination)	filed	a	
notice with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) under Competition 
Act, 2002, for the proposed combination. 
The parties to the proposed combination made the following preliminary 
submissions	that	the	proposed	combination	did	not	require	the	filing	of	a	
notice	with	the	CCI:	
•	The	definition	of	the	enterprise	does	not	require	notification	of	
transactions between a parent company and its subsidiaries as they are 
effectively a single economic enterprise.
•	 The proposed combination, being an outbound stream of acquisition by 
TCL, would be exempt under Item 10 of Schedule I of the Combination 
Regulations. 
•	 If the proposed combination related to acquisition of assets of Wyoming 
by TCL, the same would be exempt under Item 8 of Schedule 1
•	The	preliminary	submissions	were	considered	and	replied	to	as	follows:
	−A subsidiary is a separate legal entity and would therefore constitute 
a separate enterprise under section 2(h).
	−Item 10 in Schedule I relates to combinations taking place entirely 
outside	India	with	an	insignificant	local	nexus	and	effect	on	markets	
in India. Since the parties to the proposed combination meet the 
threshold relating to assets or turnover in India and TCL is an Indian 
party, the exemption would not be applicable.
	−	Item	8	to	Schedule	I	relates	to	acquisition	and	since	the	proposed	
combination is pursuant to a scheme of amalgamation, the 
exemption under Item 8 would not be available. Therefore, the 
merger	required	a	notification	to	the	CCI.
Thus, the parties are required to give notice of the proposed combination 
under the Competition Act, 2002.Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
PwC36Ruling
Upon	notification,	the	CCI	made	the	following	observations:
•	 Both TCL and Wyoming are engaged in different business activities and 
there	is	no	horizontal	overlap	or	vertical	relationship	between	them.	
•	 Ultimate control over the activities carried on by TCL and Wyoming 
before and after the proposed combination, remained with the 
management of TCL.
Considering the above, the CCI held that the proposed combination is not 
likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in India and it 
approved the proposed combination.
GAAR
Expert Committee Report on General Anti Avoidance Rules  
The General Anti Avoidance Rules (GAAR) were incorporated into the 
Finance Act, 2012, in order to provide a basic framework for application of 
the GAAR. The GAAR are a broad set of provisions which grant powers to 
authorities to invalidate any arrangement where one of the main purposes is 
to	obtain	a	tax	benefit.	
In this regard, it was provided in the Act that GAAR provisions would be 
applied in accordance with such guidelines and subject to such conditions 
and in a manner as may be prescribed.
A committee was therefore constituted which published draft guidelines 
on 28 June, 2012. Subsequently, the Prime Minister of India constituted an 
expert committee, under the chairmanship of Dr. Parthasarathi Shome, to 
provide recommendations on implementation of the GAAR. 
Dr. Shome’s report was released on 1 September 2012. The following were 
the	major	recommendations	of	Dr.	Shome’s	expert	committee:	
•	 The GAAR provisions should be applicable prospectively. 
•	 Implementation of the GAAR should be deferred for three years, so that 
they	will	be	applicable	from	FY	2016-17.
•	A	monetary	threshold	of	30	million	INR	in	terms	of	tax	benefit	
(excluding interest) to a taxpayer in a year should be used for the 
applicability	of	the	GAAR	provisions.	Furthermore,	the	tax	benefit	
should be considered separately for each arrangement unless the 
arrangements are interlinked or connected with each other.•	 Consideration of the tax consequences should be limited only to the 
impermissible part of an arrangement.
•	 The GAAR provisions should not be applicable to every tax avoidance 
arrangement	unless	it	is	abusive,	contrived	and	artificial.	The	
committee also recommended a negative list, to make it clear when the 
GAAR would not be invoked.
•	 There should be grandfathering of existing investments (though not 
of arrangements) so that these regulations are not invoked on their 
subsequent sale.
•	TRC	should	be	sufficient	for	accepting	the	residential	status	of	a	
Mauritian company.
•	The	GAAR	should	not	be	invoked	where	Specific	Anti	Avoidance	Rules	
(SAAR) are applicable or where anti-avoidance provisions are already 
present in the tax treaty 
•	 The GAAR provisions should not apply to a foreign institutional investor 
(FII) it is taxed according to domestic law provisions. 
•	 When determining the tax consequences of an impermissible avoidance 
arrangement, a corresponding adjustment should be allowed in the 
case of the same taxpayer in the same year as well as in different years, 
as the case may be. However, a corresponding adjustment should not be 
allowed in the case of any other taxpayer. 
•	 The administration of the AAR should be strengthened so that an 
advance ruling may be obtained within the time frame of six months.Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Capital Gains
Depreciation
Tax exemptions/planning   Gift of shares   
GAAR  Corporate law 
developments  Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Personal  Tax
Transfer pricing
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC38Transfer pricing
International update
India chapter of the United Nation’s draft Practical Manual on 
Transfer Pricing for Developing Countries
Intent of the draft Manual and its guiding principles 
The United Nations (UN) recently released eight draft chapters of its 
Practical Manual on Transfer Pricing for developing countries (the UN TP 
Manual or the Manual). Also included in the Manual are a foreword and 
a	draft	chapter	(Chapter	10)	containing	country-specific	perspectives	that	
explain the transfer pricing (TP) administrative practices prevalent in four 
countries:	Brazil,	China,	India	subsequently	referred	to	as	the	India	chapter)	
and South Africa. 
The Manual intends to address the need of developing countries for clearer 
guidance on the policy and administrative aspects of applying TP analysis. 
Such guidance is intended to assist policy makers and administrators in 
dealing with complex TP issues, and to assist taxpayers in their dealings 
with tax administrations. 
The Manual has been developed based on the following key guiding 
principles:	
•	 It is a practical rather than a legislative model. 
•	It	reflects	the	realities	for	developing	countries,	and	addresses	real	
issues in a practical way.
•	 It is geared to the administrative limitations in some countries and their 
deficits	in	information,	skills	and	resources.
•	 It aims to leverage the experience of other developing countries. 
Notably, the foreword to the Manual clearly states that owing to the 
widespread	reliance	on	the	Organisation	for	Economic	Co-operation	and	
Development Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and 
Tax	Administrations,	July	2010	(OECD	TP	Guidelines)	by	both	developing	
and developed countries, consistency with these Guidelines has been 
sought.
As	for	Chapter	10,	the	foreword	to	the	Manual	clarifies	that	this	chapter	
is different from the other chapters as it represents an outline of the 
administrative practices in a particular country as described by the 
representatives of those countries. Accordingly, as further stated in the 
foreword, no consensus on Chapter 10 has been sought, and thus this 
chapter	does	not	reflect	the	official	view	of	the	UN.	The India chapter primarily discusses some of the emerging TP issues in 
India as described by the Indian tax administration. Some of the India 
issues have been discussed in the UN TP Manual, while others have not been 
addressed	at	all.	The	issues	discussed	in	the	India	chapter	are	listed	below:
•	 Use of contemporaneous data
•	 Allocation of risks 
•	 Arm’s length range
•	 Comparability adjustments
•	 Location savings
•	 Intangibles
•	 Intra-group services
•	 Financial transactions
•	 Dispute resolution 
For detailed analysis of each of the above issues please refer to our News Alert 
dated 11 October 2012. 
OECD releases discussion draft for revision of Chapter VI 
(intangibles) of OECD TP Guidelines
In	mid-2010,	the	OECD	announced	the	launch	of	a	new	project	focusing	on	
TP issues involving intangible property that is expected to be completed in 
2013.	On	6	June	2012,	the	OECD	published	the	first	public	discussion	draft	
on the ‘Revision of the Special Considerations for Intangibles in Chapter 
VI	of	the	OECD	Transfer	Pricing	Guidelines’	(the	discussion	draft).	The	
discussion	draft	contains	proposed	revisions	to	Chapter	VI	of	the	OECD	
Guidelines.	The	final	publication	will	be	made	after	considering	public	
comments	and	will	replace	the	existing	Chapter	VI	of	the	OECD	Guidelines.	
The purpose of the proposed Chapter VI is to provide guidance on the 
determination of arm’s length conditions/prices for transactions involving 
the use of or transfer of intangibles. The discussion draft has been broadly 
divided	into	the	following	four	sections:
Part	A	-	Identification	of	specific	intangibles						
Part	B	-	Identification	of	parties	entitled	to	retain	the	return	derived	from	
the use or transfer of intangibles
Part C - Nature of the controlled transactions and whether they involve the 
use of intangibles and/or lead to the transfer of intangibles International Update
Case lawsTransfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Corporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition sPersonal  Tax
Transfer pricing
PwC39Part D - Remuneration paid between independent parties for the use or 
transfer of such intangibles. 
For further details please refer to our News Alert dated 14 June, 2012
Case laws
Sharing of net revenue consistently in controlled and uncontrolled 
transactions held as a valid comparable uncontrolled price
Facts
•	 Agility Logistics Pvt. Ltd (the taxpayer) is a logistics service provider, 
offering a comprehensive portfolio of international, domestic and 
specialised freight-handling services.
•	 For the freight-forwarding transactions, the taxpayer adopted a policy 
of sharing the net revenue (i.e. amounts billed to the customers less 
third party costs) between the origin and the destination companies in 
a	50:50	ratio.	Since	the	policy	was	consistently	applied	in	controlled	
and uncontrolled transactions, the taxpayer adopted the comparable 
uncontrolled price (CUP) method to determine the arm’s length price 
(ALP) of the net revenue share payments to and receipts from its AEs.
•	 During the course of assessment proceedings, the transfer pricing 
officer	(TPO)	rejected	the	CUP	method	by	stating	that	the	application	
of	the	50:50	model	between	the	origin	and	destination	companies	
in different geographical locations would not provide a realistic 
comparison owing to differences in economic conditions and policies 
of	the	governments,	which	would	affect	costs	and	profitability.	He	also	
contended that the agreements between the related and unrelated 
parties	were	entered	into	on	a	profit-split	basis,	and	not	on	the	basis	of	
a rate.
Tribunal order
•	 The CUP method was regularly adopted by the taxpayer.
•	 The terms and conditions in the agreements with AEs and third parties 
were	substantially	the	same	and	the	profit-split	information	contained	
in all the agreements is typical to the industry.
•	 Geographical differences are not material so far as they apply to the 
logistics industry.
•	Accordingly,	the	Tribunal	confirmed	the	order	of	the	CIT(A)	and	upheld	
the use of the CUP method to benchmark the international transactions 
of the taxpayer. 
ACIT v. Agility Logistics Pvt. Ltd. [TS-47-ITAT-2012 (Mum)]CUP is the most appropriate method for determining the ALP of 
interest on loans
Facts
•	 The taxpayer (Aithent Technologies Pvt. Ltd.) is engaged in the 
development and sale of software to its US subsidiary, i.e. its AE. 
The AE undertakes the functions of marketing and customisation 
while the taxpayer is responsible for contract execution and product 
development.
•	During	financial	year	(FY)	2001-02,	in	addition	to	the	primary	
international transaction of sale of software to its AE, the taxpayer had 
given interest-free loans (denominated in USD) to its AE periodically, 
amounting to INR 73.9 million.
•	 The taxpayer had considered the transactional net marginal method 
(TNMM) the most appropriate method for benchmarking both 
transactions. With respect to the loan transaction, the taxpayer had 
inferred that no external uncontrolled price was available. 
•	 Therefore, to benchmark the transaction, a notional interest amount of 
INR 3.15 million was deducted from the software development income 
while computing the operating margin earned by the taxpayer on the 
international transaction of sale of software (the taxpayer had made an 
assumption	that	the	loan	would	fetch	an	interest	rate	of	10%	as	per	the	
lending rate authorised by the RBI). As the margin was better than that 
of the comparables, the taxpayer concluded that both the transactions 
met the arm’s length standard. 
•	During	the	course	of	TP	assessment	proceedings,	the	TPO	concluded	
that the loan transaction was an entirely separate transaction, not 
in conjunction with the primary activity of the taxpayer, and hence 
merited a separate analysis.
•	The	TPO	proceeded	to	make	an	adjustment	of	INR	3.15	million,	being	
the notional interest cost considered, to the income of the taxpayer 
which was subsequently upheld by the CIT(A). 
Tribunal order
•	 The Tribunal held that it was indisputable that the loan transaction was 
an independent transaction, requiring the determination of an ALP.
•	 Relying on the decision of the Delhi Tribunal in the case of Perot 
Systems	TSI	(I)	Ltd.	v.	DCIT	[2010]	37	SOT	358	(Del),	the	Tribunal	
opined that the CUP method was the most appropriate method to 
ascertain the ALP of the loan transaction. International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC40•	 Furthermore, as observed in that case, the Tribunal held that whether 
the funds were advanced out of interest-bearing funds or interest of 
interest-free advances or were commercially expedient to the taxpayer 
or not was wholly irrelevant.
•	 For the purpose of applying the CUP method, the following factors are 
relevant:	assessment	of	the	credit	quality	of	the	borrower,	estimation	
of a credit rating and evaluation of the terms of the loan such as the 
period of loan, amount, currency, interest rate basis, and any additional 
inputs	such	as	convertibility	and	finally	the	estimation	of	the	arm’s	
length terms of the loan based upon the key comparability factors and 
internal and/or external comparable transactions.
•	 Considering that neither the taxpayer nor the revenue had examined 
the applicability of the CUP method as the most appropriate method, 
the	Tribunal	restored	the	matter	to	the	file	of	the	TO/	TPO	for	fresh	
adjudication with direction to recompute the ALP, following the CUP 
method, keeping in view various judicial pronouncements. 
Aithent Technologies Pvt. Ltd. v. ITO [2012] 134 ITD 521 (Del)
Bad debts not a factor relevant to determination of ALP for 
royalty 
Facts
•	 The taxpayer (CA Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd.) had entered 
into a software distribution agreement with CA Management Inc. 
(CAMI), whereby the taxpayer was appointed as a distributor of CAMI’s 
products (software) to third parties in India. Under the agreement, the 
taxpayer was liable to pay an annual royalty on all amounts invoiced, at 
the	rate	of	30%.	
•	 There was no dispute regarding the rate of royalty. However, royalty 
on	sales	written	off	as	bad	debts	was	disallowed	by	the	TPO/	TO.	The	
amount of bad debts included those arising on sales where the software 
had not worked at all or where there were complaints regarding the 
quality of the products. Thus, it was held that such cases should be 
dealt with on the basis that no sales had been made, and therefore, 
royalty need not be paid to that extent. 
•	 Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the CIT(A), who rejected the 
taxpayer’s appeal, and made similar observations as those made by the 
TPO/	TO.	Aggrieved	with	the	CIT(A)’s	decision,	the	taxpayer	appealed	
before the Tribunal.Tribunal order
The Tribunal concluded that non-recovery of sales value from third party 
customers does not have an impact on the determination of the ALP in 
respect of the royalty transactions.
High Court order
•	The	HC,	ruled	in	favour	of	the	taxpayer	and	confirmed	the	decision	of	
the	Tribunal	and	held	as	follows:
	−Section 92C of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act) does not, either 
expressly or impliedly, consider bad debts to be a relevant factor 
in determining the ALP for royalty. Also, in the absence of any 
statutory provision, bad debts cannot be a factor relevant to the 
determination of ALP of the royalty transaction. 
	−Once	the	revenue	authorities	accept	that	the	rate	of	royalty	was	not	
under dispute, there can be no reduction in the value of royalty on 
account of bad debts. 
	−Unless there was an agreement to the contrary, the vendor or 
licensor is not concerned with the recovery of sale price from 
third parties. The two are distinct, unconnected transactions. The 
purchaser's/licensee's obligation to pay royalty is not dependent 
upon the recovery of its sale price from customers.
CIT v. CA Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd. [2012] 252 CTR 164 (Mum)
ALP for sourcing services: Cost-based remuneration model 
adjudged most appropriate for a limited risk procurement 
support service provider
Facts
•	 GAP International Sourcing (India) Pvt. Ltd. (GIS India or the taxpayer) 
is a group company of the famous retail brand GAP; the taxpayer was 
engaged in facilitating the sourcing of apparel from India for its group 
companies.
•	 The taxpayer adopted the TNMM to benchmark the service fee 
determined	at	full	cost	plus	15%	from	the	foreign	group	company	for	its	
TP	documentation	for	FYs	2005-06	and	2006-07.
•	During	the	TP	audits,	the	TPO	disregarded	the	Functional,	Asset	and	
Risk	(FAR)	profile	and	characterisation	of	GIS	India	by	assuming	that	
the	FAR	profile	of	the	taxpayer	was	substantially	higher	than	those	of	
limited	risk	support	service	providers.	The	TPO	alleged	that	a	cost-plus	
form of remuneration did not take into account substantial intangible International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC41assets owned by the taxpayer. These intangibles were primarily 
construed	by	the	TPO	to	be	in	the	nature	of	human	asset	intangibles,	
supply chain intangibles and location savings.
•	Based	on	this,	the	TPO	ascertained	that	the	taxpayer	ought	to	have	
earned	a	commission	of	around	5%	on	the	free-on-board	(FOB)	value	
of	the	goods	procured	by	the	group	companies.	Accordingly,	the	TPO	
imposed	TP	adjustments	of	INR	2.36	billion	and	INR	2.63	billion	for	FYs	
2005-06 and 2006-07, respectively. 
•	 The TP adjustments resulted in imputed returns on the operating 
expenses	of	the	taxpayer	to	the	extent	of	830%	and	660%	for	FYs	2005-
06 and 2006-07, respectively.
•	 The Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) upheld the entire adjustment 
made	by	the	TPO.	The	taxpayer	appealed	before	the	Tribunal	against	
the	total	addition	of	INR	4.99	billion	made	for	FYs	2005-06	and	2006-
07.
Tribunal order
FAR related
•	 FAR analysis gives the basis of characterisation, for example a 
manufacturer, service provider, distributor, etc., with further sub-
characterisation including a low-risk service provider, high-risk service 
provider,	full-fledged	manufacturer,	contract	manufacturer,	etc.	This	
characterisation is important for determining the ALP.
•	 The revenue authorities had not given any facts, material, evidence, or 
examples to support their claim regarding the taxpayer’s FAR, i.e., that 
of being a risk-bearing entity. 
•	No	human	intangibles	were	created	for	the	following	reasons:	
	−The revenue authorities provided no supporting material and only 
made generalised assertions to demonstrate that any or a few of the 
employees were acclaimed personalities or were indispensable in 
the	garment	procurement	trade.	Their	work	profile	did	not	entail	
decision-making or entrepreneurial roles. 
	−The taxpayer’s employees were engaged in preordained support 
activities	according	to	set	guidelines	and	their	qualifications	were	
general and routine. 
•	No	supply	chain	intangibles	were	created	for	the	following	reasons:	
	−The revenue authorities had no discernible basis. 
	−The	taxpayer’s	roles,	activities	and	suppliers	were	already	identified	
and the taxpayer merely followed instructions.  •	 No separate or additional allocation was called for on account of 
location	savings	for	the	following	reasons:	
	−A newspaper report by itself cannot assume the character of 
comparable data.
	−Location savings in a developing economy arise to an industry as a 
whole and there was nothing on record to show that the taxpayer 
was	the	sole	beneficiary.
	−Sourcing from low-cost countries was done in the face of 
stiff competition, by providing lower costs to end customers. 
Furthermore, the location savings advantage was passed onto end 
customers.
	−If comparables were in the jurisdiction of the tested party, then 
location	savings,	if	any,	would	be	reflected	in	the	profitability	of	the	
comparables used for benchmarking. 
•	 The Tribunal considered the documentation submitted by the taxpayer 
providing evidence of its FAR (handbook, guidelines, instructions) 
to conclude that the taxpayer had a lack of authority or discretion to 
deviate from the policies/procedures prescribed by the principal AE, 
and eventually held GAP India to be a low-risk procurement support 
service provider. 
•	The	choice	of	method	and	profit	level	indicator	(PLI),	should	not	lead	
to manifestly absurd results, as that would lead to the creation of 
aberrations	(abnormal	profits	or	high	losses),	which	should	be	avoided	
as	they	would	reflect	an	adversarial	approach	on	the	part	of	the	tax	
administration. 
•	The	ALP	should	reflect	the	commercial	and	economic	realities	of	the	
industry.  
•	 Remuneration models of procurement service providers include the 
percentage (commission) of the value of goods procured and the cost 
plus mark-up. Regardless of the model however, negotiated terms 
would serve the best interests of both parties. Market forces will 
interact	and	lead	to	reasonably	acceptable	profitability.
•	For	adopting	a	remuneration	model	based	on	the	FOB	value	of	goods,	
the revenue authorities should have produced comparables for the 
procurement service providers that follow a percentage-based model 
and earn an exorbitant mark-up on costs. For preordained support 
services,	a	percentage-based	model	with	no	significant	value-added	
functions	cannot	be	followed.	Thus,	the	functional	profile	of	the	
taxpayer was different from that that in the case of Li & Fung India Pvt. 
Ltd.International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC42•	 Cost-based remuneration was appropriate for a non-risk-bearing 
procurement support service provider and hence, the Tribunal held that 
the	arm’s	length	cost	plus	mark-up	for	the	taxpayer	should	be	32%	for	
the	both	FYs	2005-06	and	2006-07	by	resorting	to	a	commission-based	
model	of	5%	on	the	FOB	value	of	goods	procured	by	the	AE	directly	
from Indian vendors. 
GAP International Sourcing (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-667-ITAT-2012 (Del)]
Editor’s note: This case was overseen by PwC India TP Leader, Rahul K. Mitra.
Mean advertising spend of a company in the same industry cannot 
be the ALP for advertising expenditure to be incurred by the 
taxpayer, and this is also not the correct application of TNMM
Facts
•	 Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. (the taxpayer) is engaged in the 
manufacturing and export of pharmaceutical products. Its AEs are 
located in Cyprus, and its international transactions with its AEs were 
export of pharmaceutical products and reimbursement of business 
promotion expenditure. 
•	The	TPO	accepted	the	former	transaction,	but	proposed	an	adjustment	
to the latter by curtailing business promotion expenditure reimbursed 
by	the	taxpayer	to	its	AEs	at	10%	of	total	sales,	as	it	believed	that	
the business promotion expenditure incurred by the taxpayer was 
unusually	high	(at	60.33%	of	sales).	
•	The	TPO	alleged	that	the	earnings	in	India	were	being	transferred	
to the AEs as they were located in a tax haven. Since the taxpayer 
ultimately sold in the Ukraine market but routed the sales through 
its	Cyprus	AEs,	the	TPO	urged	the	TO	to	investigate	the	business	
promotion	expenditure	as	it	“appeared	doubtful”	at	first	glance.	
•	The	TPO	rejected	the	CUP	method	adopted	by	the	taxpayer	and	instead	
applied	the	TNMM.	The	TPO	compared	the	advertising	and	marketing	
(A&M) expenses incurred by 17 top pharmaceutical companies with the 
business promotion expenditure incurred by the taxpayer. 
•	 The arithmetic mean of the A&M expenses as a percentage of sales for 
all	17	companies	were	compared	by	the	TPO	to	the	business	promotion	
expenditure	of	the	taxpayer	as	a	percentage	of	sales.	The	TPO	proposed	
an adjustment to the taxpayer’s business promotion expenditure, which 
was	in	excess	of	10%	of	sales.	Aggrieved	with	the	TPO’s	order,	the	
taxpayer appealed to the CIT(A). •	 The CIT(A) deleted the addition.
•	 Aggrieved with the order of the CIT(A), the revenue authorities 
appealed before the Tribunal.
Tribunal order 
•	No	method	can	be	rejected	without	giving	cogent	reasons.	The	TPO	has	
to explain why the CUP method is not applicable, and why the TNMM 
was	considered	appropriate.	In	the	immediately	preceding	AY,	the	TPO	
had accepted the method adopted by the taxpayer. 
•	 Taking the arithmetic mean of the percentage of A&M expenditure 
of the top 17 pharmaceutical companies as the industry average and 
applying this as the arm’s length percentage of expenditure that should 
be incurred by the taxpayer is not the correct application of the TNMM. 
Such an arithmetic mean cannot be the ALP. Furthermore, there is 
nothing common that has been brought out between the taxpayer and 
these companies, i.e., no analysis of the type of drug, nature of markets, 
period of advertisement, etc.
•	The	primary	benefit	of	the	A&M	expenditure	belongs	to	the	taxpayer	
(the manufacturer of the product), and the expense should also be 
incurred by the taxpayer.  
•	The	TPO’s	role	is	limited	to	determining	the	ALP,	while	the	TO	is	
required to evaluate the genuineness of expenditure and compute the 
total income relating to the ALP. 
•	 Permission granted by the RBI, payments being audited and routed 
through	banking	channels,	and	the	TPO	not	producing	evidence	to	
show that money paid to AEs was partly returned to the taxpayer, 
are not grounds based on which an appeal can be allowed or a TP 
adjustment determined. 
ACIT v. Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. [TS-326-ITAT-2012 (Mum)]
For attribution of profits to a PE, the TO cannot apply Rule 10 
without rejecting the TP study for correct reasons 
Facts
•	The	taxpayer,	a	project	office	of	Hyundai	Rotem	Company,	Korea	(the	
taxpayer), provided liaison, co-ordination, and administrative support 
services	to	its	head	office,	in	connection	with	a	contract	being	executed	
in	India.	The	income	of	the	project	office	was	computed	on	a	cost-plus	
9%	basis,	and	this	was	supported	by	a	TP	study.International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC43•	There	are	three	years	under	consideration,	i.e.,	AY	2002-03,	2003-
04 and 2004-05. A TP study was undertaken for each of these years. 
For	AY	2004-05,	the	TPO	accepted	the	TP	study	carried	out	by	the	
taxpayer and found the international transactions to be at arm’s length. 
However,	in	the	case	of	AY	2002-03	and	AY	2003-04,	the	case	was	not	
referred	by	the	TO	to	the	TPO.	
•	The	TO	did	not	accept	the	cost-plus	methodology	adopted	by	the	
taxpayer and instead determined the income by applying Rule 10. The 
TO	adopted	a	global	formulary	apportionment	approach	in	order	to	
determine	the	income	attributable	to	the	project	office.	
•	Aggrieved,	the	taxpayer	appealed	to	the	CIT(A)	who	upheld	the	TO’s	
approach. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunal. 
Tribunal order
•	 For the purpose of computing income of a PE, the methodology 
provided under TP Regulations (sections 92 to 92F of the Act read 
with Rules 10A to 10E of the Income-tax Rules, 1962 (the Rules)) is 
preferred over the procedure provided under Rule 10 of the Rules read 
with section 9 of the Act.
•	 Rule 10 can be applied in cases where the income of the PE cannot 
be	definitely	ascertained	and	the	TO	has	to	demonstrate	this.	The	TO	
cannot simply proceed to apply Rule 10 without rejecting the TP study 
undertaken	by	the	taxpayer.	For	rejecting	the	TP	study,	the	TO	must	
provide reasons and evidence.   
•	Profits	attributable	to	a	PE	shall	be	determined	by	the	same	method	
each	year	unless	there	is	sufficient	reason	not	to	do	so.	Reliance	in	
this case was placed on Article 7(5) of the India-Korea tax treaty and 
the fact that the revenue authorities had accepted the taxpayer’s 
methodology	in	subsequent	AYs.
Hyundai Rotem Company v. ADIT [TS-612-ITAT-2012 (Del)]
Resale price method (not TNMM) is appropriate for distribution; 
losses are on account of business strategy; and there is no motive 
to shift profits as margins of AEs are all reasonable
Facts
•	The	taxpayer	(L’oreal	India	Pvt.	Ltd.)	is	a	100%	subsidiary	of	L’oreal	SA	
France and is engaged in manufacturing and distribution of cosmetics 
and beauty products. The taxpayer’s business was accordingly 
segregated into manufacturing and distribution segments, which have 
been separately benchmarked for TP purposes. •	No	adjustment	was	made	by	the	TPO	in	respect	of	the	manufacturing	
segment. 
•	 However, in respect of the distribution segment, i.e. in respect of the 
international	transaction	of	purchase	of	finished	goods,	the	taxpayer	
had applied the resale price method (RPM) benchmarking the gross 
margin	of	the	taxpayer	at	4o.80%	against	that	of	the	comparables	at	
14.85%.	The	TPO	rejected	the	application	of	the	RPM	by	the	taxpayer	
and instead adopted the TNMM. An adjustment was made on the 
basis	of	the	operating	margin	of	comparables	at	0.36%,	as	against	the	
taxpayer’s	loss	of	(-)	19.84%.	
•	 Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed to the CIT(A). The CIT(A) deleted 
the adjustment, aggrieved with which the revenue authorities appealed 
to the Tribunal.
Tribunal order
•	 There was no hierarchy of methods. The RPM is one of the standard 
methods and is the most appropriate when the taxpayer buys products 
from its AEs and sells to unrelated parties without any further 
processing	or	value	addition	(with	reliance	placed	upon	the	OECD	TP	
Guidelines).
•	 Losses incurred by the taxpayer were on account of the business 
strategy of the taxpayer and the initial years of the distribution activity, 
rather than the non-arm’s length TP.
•	The	taxpayer	had	no	motive	to	shift	profits	as	the	AEs	earn	reasonable	
margins	of	2%	to	4%	(or	even	less)	on	their	supplies	to	the	taxpayer	
(with	reliance	placed	on	certificates	from	the	AEs	indicating	the	margin	
earned). 
•	The	RPM	had	been	accepted	by	the	TPO	in	the	preceding	as	well	as	the	
succeeding	AYs	and	should	therefore	be	acceptable	in	the	current	year	
as well. 
ACIT v. L’oreal India Pvt. Ltd. [TS-703-ITAT-2012 (Mum)]
Tribunal upholds important TP principles on characterisation 
and rewards for selling activity
Facts
•	 Mastek Ltd (taxpayer) is a global software solutions provider and 
provides offshore and onsite solutions to clients. It had a subsidiary 
called Mastek Ltd in UK (MUK), which acted as a distributor for the 
software solutions of the taxpayer in the UK and earned a return on 
sales (operating margins).International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC44•	 In its TP analysis, the taxpayer selected MUK as the tested party and 
benchmarked the return on sales with comparable distributors. 
•	During	the	course	of	assessment	proceedings,	the	TPO	re-characterised	
MUK as a pure marketing service provider by stating that the functions 
of MUK were purely marketing activities and MUK did not bear any 
inventory,	foreign	exchange	and	profit	risk.	The	TPO	accordingly	
considered comparable marketing service providers and applied their 
operating	profit/value-added	expenses	(OP/VAE)	to	MUK’s	VAE	and	
computed a TP adjustment. 
•	The	DRP	upheld	the	order	of	the	TPO.	Aggrieved,	the	taxpayer	
appealed before the Tribunal.
Tribunal order 
•	 Agreements between parties based on commercial expediency cannot 
be disregarded without assigning a cogent reason or unless the 
agreement was not genuine. 
•	 Based on the facts, MUK was not merely a customer-facing entity but 
was in a position to negotiate with customers and handle the scope and 
timing of deliverables. MUK had successfully endeavoured to improve 
the revenue generation and had among other things, paid commission 
to its employees on sales. Furthermore, MUK had assumed market and 
credit risk. Consequently, MUK had acted as a distributor rather than 
as a marketing service provider. Accordingly, the return on sales to 
benchmark MUK was a reliable PLI.
•	 Furthermore, the return-on-sales methodology created an incentive 
for MUK to generate more revenue which considered the respective 
advantages	of	both	the	parties	necessitated	by	the	significant	share	of	
revenue generated by the taxpayer from the UK. 
•	 The Tribunal noted that the distributors were not always required 
to	have	a	fluctuating	percentage	of	profit.	In	other	words,	a	fixed	
percentage	of	profit	would	still	lead	to	a	fluctuating	level	of	absolute	
profits	based	on	the	sales	generated.
•	 Relying on the UK HMRC Guidance, the Tribunal concluded that 
distributors would need to be compensated on a return-on-sales basis 
and not on a cost-plus basis. 
•	The	OECD	TP	guidelines	emphasise	functional	similarities	over	
product similarities and accordingly, the taxpayer’s comparability 
analysis identifying comparable distributors of software products was 
appropriate. 
Mastek Ltd v. DCIT [TS-693-ITAT-2012 (Ahd)]CUP upheld to be the most appropriate method for benchmarking 
broking transactions; arithmetic mean and not weighted average 
to be considered for determining ALP; adjustments for differences 
in volume and functions need to be considered
Facts
•	 RBS Equities (India) Ltd (the assessee) is engaged in the business of 
broking and trading in shares as a corporate member of the Bombay 
Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange. The assessee had 
provided stock broking services to its AE, which is a foreign institutional 
investor (FII).
•	 In the TP documentation, the assessee had used the TNMM as the most 
appropriate method (MAM) to benchmark the said transaction. 
•	During	the	course	of	the	assessment	proceedings,	the	TPO	held	the	CUP	
as the MAM to benchmark the said transaction and made an adjustment 
by using the simple average broking commission rate commission rate 
charged to the top 10 FIIs against the weighted average commission 
rate charged to the AE by the assessee.
•	 The assessee contended that if the CUP was to be used as the MAM, 
then appropriate adjustments should be made for differences in 
volume, marketing function and research function.
•	The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	order	of	TPO.
Tribunal order
•	 For stock broking services rendered by the taxpayer to the AE (an FII), 
the use of the CUP method over the TNMM was upheld, primarily 
owing to the availability of an internal CUP. Another factor which 
may have been considered relevant by the Tribunal was that the 
taxpayer was undertaking trades for the AEs and FIIs, which operated 
from similar geographies, without being present in India, and their 
perception of the Indian market in terms of risks and rewards would be 
the same. 
•	The	first	proviso	to	section	92C	refers	to	the	arithmetic	mean.	There	
was nothing to suggest that the volume of relevant transactions has to 
be taken for computing such arithmetic mean. 
•	 There is no provision in the statute that allows taking the weighted 
average arithmetic mean for determining the ALP. Therefore, the 
taxpayer’s contention to adopt the weighted average arithmetic mean 
of brokerage rate of comparables (the top 10 FIIs), as against the simple 
average	arithmetic	mean	of	such	rates	taken	by	the	TPO,	cannot	be	
accepted. International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC45•	 Following Rule 10B(1)(a)(ii), the claim of the taxpayer for adjustment 
for marketing function, research function and differences in volumes 
should be considered on their merits after verifying details and 
documentary evidence submitted by the taxpayer in support.
RBS Equities (India) Ltd v. ACIT [TS-661-ITAT-2012 (Mum)
Managing directors’ remuneration should be allocated between 
tax holiday units; implications under domestic transfer pricing 
provisions need to be considered
Facts
•	 Nahar Spinning Mills Ltd (the taxpayer) operated nine different units, 
of which the taxpayer claimed deductions under section 10B of the Act 
for two units (referred to as ‘tax holiday units’ or ‘eligible units’). 
•	 The managing director’s (MD) remuneration was debited to the main 
unit and no part of this expense was allocated to the tax holiday units. 
•	The	AO	held	that	the	assessee	had	claimed	an		excessive	deduction	
by not allocating the MD’s remuneration to the tax holiday units and 
recomputed	the	tax	holiday	profits.
•	The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	order	of	the	AO.	
Tribunal order
•	 Sections 80-IA(8) and 80-IA(10) of the Act are not applicable in this 
case. 
•	 Section 80-IA(8) of the Act applies where goods and services held for 
the purpose of eligible business are transferred to any other business 
carried on by the taxpayer (or vice versa). In the taxpayer’s case, goods 
and services had not been transferred between the units of the taxpayer 
and accordingly section 80-IA(8) of the Act should not apply. 
•	 Section 80-IA(10) of the Act refers to the close connection between 
the taxpayer carrying on eligible business and any other person. 
Accordingly, a transaction of re-allocation of the MD’s remuneration 
from one unit of the taxpayer to another is not covered by section 80-IA 
(10) of the Act.    
•	 However, under the provisions of section 10B, all expenditure relating 
to the eligible unit should be deducted while computing the eligible 
profits	derived	from	the	undertaking.	Thus,	the	remuneration	paid	
to the MD, being a common expenditure, should be allocated to the 
eligible	units	for	computing	tax	holiday	profits.PwC observations
This ruling suggests that the allocation of common expenditure to tax 
holidays units, to the extent that it does not qualify as ‘provision of services’, 
is not covered by section 80-IA(8) of the Act. 
Consequently,	while	taxpayers	will	need	to	adopt	a	scientific	approach	to	
determine the allocation of common expenses and maintain documentation 
supporting them, such transactions may not be covered under the recently 
specified	domestic	transaction	provisions.				
In such cases, taxpayers are advised to develop and maintain the following 
documents	to	help	defend	the	allocation:
•	 An appropriate cost allocation policy 
•	 A description of the nature of costs and an explanation as to why these 
do not qualify as ‘provision of services’.
This approach will help taxpayers address the implications of the onerous 
compliance requirements enforced through domestic transfer pricing 
provisions.
Nahar Spinning Mills Ltd v. JCIT [TS-622-ITAT-2012(Chd)]  
More profit from related parties than unrelated parties does not 
itself make  the profit ‘more than ordinary’ (electricity board 
rates also used as support); profit comparison to be done for 
‘individual’ related parties 
Facts
•	OPG	Energy	Pvt	Ltd	(the	taxpayer)	claimed	a	deduction	under	section	
80-IA	of	the	Act,	which	was	restricted	by	the	AO,	who	claimed	that	the	
taxpayer	had	earned	more	than	ordinary	profits	by	selling	to	related	
parties at a higher price than that charged by unrelated parties. The 
Tribunal, while ruling in favour of the taxpayer, laid down the following 
principles:
	−If	a	taxpayer	earns	more	profit	from	related	parties	in	comparison	
to	unrelated	parties,	that	does	not	by	itself	make	the	profit	from	
related parties ‘more than ordinary’. 
	−Profit	realised	by	the	taxpayer	by	charging	rates	to	related	parties	
lower than the rate charged by a government undertaking (a state 
electricity board) cannot be said to be ‘more than ordinary’.  
	−Comparison	of	profit	realised	from	one	or	more	related	parties	must	
be undertaken for each party separately. International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC46PwC observations
•	While	comparing	the	profits	of	the	taxpayer,	the	Tribunal	has	
considered	profits	derived	from	rates	charged	to	unrelated	parties	and	
those	charged	by	a	state	electricity	board.	The	profit	of	the	taxpayer	
derived from rates in between these two benchmarks, i.e., higher 
than the former and lower than the latter. The Tribunal, therefore, in 
essence,	considered	a	‘range’	of	profits	to	conclude	that	the	taxpayer	
was	not	earning	‘more	than	ordinary	profits’.
•	 Notably, the terminology used in section 80-IA(10) of the Act is 
‘ordinary	profits’	(in	the	plural)	rather	than	just	‘ordinary	profit’	(in	
the singular), thereby implying the use of a ‘range’ rather than a single 
reference point. Hence, it may be inferred that the legislation itself 
endorses the use of a ‘range’.
•	 However, in light of the recent amendments made by the Finance 
Act, 2012, the existing transfer pricing regulations have been made 
applicable	to	the	determination	of	profits	from	transactions	of	tax	
holiday units with closely connected person/s. The regulations provide 
for a concept of an ‘arithmetic mean’ with a narrow tolerance band. In 
fact, had the ‘arithmetic mean’ been applied instead of the approach 
adopted by the Tribunal, it could have been detrimental to the 
taxpayer.
•	 Accordingly, from the taxpayer’s perspective, one would expect a 
liberal interpretation of transfer pricing regulations when applied to 
determine	the	‘more	than	ordinary	profits’	earned	by	tax	holiday	units.
•	Comparison	of	profits	realised	from	‘individual’	related	parties	as	has	
been considered by the Tribunal in this instant case  may pose practical 
difficulties	and	may	not	always	be	feasible	or	even	required.
OPG Energy Pvt Ltd v DCIT [TS-382-ITAT-2012 (Chennai)]
Various factors to be evaluated when pricing guarantee 
commission; universal application of a particular rate rejected, 
and instead, internal CUP accepted
Facts
•	 Everest Kanto Cylinder Ltd (the taxpayer) provided a guarantee for a 
loan	taken	by	its	AE.	For	this,	the	taxpayer	charged	0.5%	guarantee	
commission to the AE.  
•	The	TPO	rejected	0.5%	and	applied	3%	as	the	arm’s	length	guarantee	
commission.  •	The	CIT(A)	upheld	the	adjustment	made	by	the	TPO.
•	 Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunal.
Tribunal order 
•	In	view	of	the	amendment	to	the	definition	of	an	international	
transaction introduced by the Finance Act, 2012, provision of guarantee 
is an international transaction. Thus, the methods prescribed in the 
statute become applicable for determining its arm’s length price.
•	 Charging of guarantee commission varies from transaction to 
transaction, and is dependent on the terms and conditions of the 
loan, risk undertaken, relationship between the bank and the client, 
economic and business interests, etc. 
•	A	universal	application	of	3%	for	guarantee	commission	cannot	be	
upheld in every case, and the use of a naked quote, available on the 
taxpayer’s website, as an external comparable, is inappropriate. 
•	A	guarantee	commission	of	0.5%	charged	to	the	AE	was	accepted	
based	on	an	internal	comparable	of	0.6%	guarantee	commission	paid	
by the taxpayer to its local bank for a letter of credit arrangement. The 
difference	of	0.1%	was	ignored	as	it	was	considered	to	derive	from	the	
difference in the rate of interest charged under the two arrangements.
Everest Kanto Cylinder Ltd v. DCIT [TS-714-ITAT-2012(Mum)-TP]
Weighted deduction available for R&D expenditure incurred 
outside the approved facility 
Profit of tax holiday unit computed by considering ‘actual’ sale 
price and costs attributable to it, including HO costs allocation 
Facts
•	 Cadila Healthcare Ltd, the taxpayer, was in the business of 
manufacturing and trading pharmaceuticals goods, diagnostic kits, 
medical instruments, etc. The taxpayer had a unit at Baddi, Himachal 
Pradesh, for which it was claiming a deduction under section 80-IC of 
the Act. The taxpayer also had a unit in Goa, for which the taxpayer was 
claiming a deduction under section 80-IB of the Act.
•	During	the	course	of	assessment	proceedings,	the	AO	proposed	the	
following	adjustments	to	the	total	income:International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC47	−Disallowance of weighted deduction under section 35(2AB) of the 
Act claimed by the company with respect to expenditure incurred 
on clinical trials and a bio-equivalence study conducted outside the 
approved R&D facility.
	−Curtailment of the amount of deduction claimed by the company 
under sections 80-IC and 80-IB of the Act in relation to its Goa and 
Baddi	units	respectively	as	the	AO	believed	that	these	units	were	
earning	abnormally	high	profits.	
•	According	to	the	AO,	the	indirect	cost	had	not	been	allocated	to	these	
units.
•	According	to	the	AO,	the	units	carried	out	manufacturing	activity	and	
transferred	the	goods	to	the	marketing	division	in	the	head	office.	
Therefore, they should have been entitled to the remuneration of cost 
and	a	reasonable	profit.
•	The	AO,	accordingly,	computed	profits	attributable	to	the	
manufacturing activity alone. 
•	 These disallowances were upheld by the DRP.  
Tribunal order
•	 Weighted deduction under section 35(2AB) of the Act is available on 
the expenditure incurred by the taxpayer on clinical trials and the bio-
equivalence study conducted outside the approved R&D facility.
•	 Deduction under section 80-IB and section 80-IC of the Act is available 
on	the	profit	earned	by	the	eligible	unit	from	the	overall	activity,	and	
the	AO	cannot	segregate	manufacturing	and	sale	activity	to	compute	
deductions under the respective sections.
•	 The relevant provision in the Act does not suggest that the eligible 
profit	should	be	computed	first	by	transferring	the	product	at	an	
imaginary	sale	price	to	the	head	office	for	the	head	office	to	then	sell	
the product in the open market. There is no such concept of segregation 
of	profit.	Profit	of	an	undertaking	is	always	computed	by	taking	into	
account the sale price of the product in the market.PwC observations
This decision is relevant for pharmaceutical companies where some part of 
the R&D process is carried out outside the approved facility. 
Furthermore, in relation to the tax holiday claim, the following principles 
have	been	laid	out:		
•	 To compute a price for the transfer of goods or services from a unit 
enjoying tax holiday to the non-eligible unit of the taxpayer, an ‘actual’ 
transfer is a pre-condition. 
•	 Where the sale from the unit enjoying tax holiday is the only source of 
income,	the	profit	of	the	unit	should	be	computed	by	considering	the	
sale price of goods or services and costs attributable to effect such a sale 
(including	allocation	of	head	office	costs).
•	Effective	FY	2012-13,	transfer	pricing	provisions	will	apply	to	
transactions involving the transfer of goods and services undertaken 
by units enjoying tax holiday to non-eligible units of the taxpayer. 
Accordingly, the above principles laid down by the Tribunal will need to 
be followed in consonance with transfer pricing regulations.  
Cadila Healthcare Ltd v. Addl CIT [TS-354-ITAT-2012 (Ahd)]
Income from a domestic related party cannot be adjusted by 
applying transfer pricing provisions under section 40A(2) of the 
Act 
Facts
•	 Durga Rice and Gen Mills, the taxpayer, is in the business of running a 
rice mill and selling rice bran. During the year, the taxpayer sold rice 
bran	to	its	domestic	related	party.	The	AO	challenged	the	rate	used	
claiming it was lower than the rate charged by other independent third 
parties	for	the	sale	of	a	similar	product.	The	AO	accordingly		proposed	
to adopt a higher rate based on available comparable prices. 
•	 The taxpayer contended that the sale value of rice bran depends on its 
quality and that the sales made to the domestic related party were at 
comparable	rates.	The	AO	rejected	the	taxpayer’s	arguments	and	made	
an	adjustment	to	the	profit	of	the	taxpayer	by	considering	the	average	
sale price realised by independent parties. Aggrieved, the taxpayer 
appealed	to	the	CIT(A),	who	upheld	the	findings	of	the	AO.
•	 The taxpayer appealed before the Tribunal against the order of CIT(A).International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Transfer pricing
PwC48 Tribunal order
•	 It is settled law that section 40A(2) of the Act cannot be applied to add 
to the difference in the value of sales made to a domestic related party. 
Section 40A(2) of the Act is restricted to disallowance of expenditure 
value. 
•	Relying	on	the	findings	of	the	Supreme	Court	in	the	case	of	CIT	v.	Glaxo	
Smithkline Asia (P) Ltd [2010] 195 Taxman 35 (SC), the Tribunal held 
that the CBDT (Revenue) also acknowledges that suitable amendments 
are required to be made to section 40A(2) of the Act if transfer pricing 
provisions are required to be applied to domestic transactions between 
related parties and adjustments on account of the difference in sale 
value effected by the taxpayer in comparison to the fair market value 
are undertaken. Given this, the provisions of section 40A(2) of the Act 
cannot be attracted in the taxpayer’s case.
PwC observations
•	 The ruling of the Tribunal clearly brings out the principle that the 
provisions	of	section	40A(2)	of	the	Act	do	not	grant	powers	to	the	AO	to	
adjust income reported by a taxpayer from domestic related parties. 
•	 Following the observations of the Supreme Court in the case of Glaxo 
Smithkline Asia (P) Ltd (above), the Finance Act, 2012 has amended 
section 40A(2) of the Act to provide that transfer pricing provisions 
will apply to determine the reasonableness of expenditure incurred 
in relation to domestic related parties. Accordingly, compliance with 
related transfer pricing provisions would have to be undertaken, with 
effect from 1 April 2012.
•	 It is relevant to note that these amendments have not extended the 
scope of section 40A(2) of the Act to income earned from domestic 
related parties. In fact, the Memorandum to the Finance Bill, 2012 
explaining the amendments, noted that extending transfer pricing 
requirements to all domestic transactions will lead to increases in the 
compliance burden on all assessees, which is undesirable. •	 Taxpayers earning income from related parties should, however, be 
cognisant of a potential adverse impact to a group where a related 
party making payment to a taxpayer faces a disallowance of the 
payment under section 40A(2) of the Act but a corresponding reduction 
in income is not available to the taxpayer. A holistic review of the 
pricing policy of transactions between domestic related parties and a 
coordinated effort towards robust transfer pricing documentation  is of 
paramount importance.
Durga Rice and Gen Mills  v. AO [TS-446-ITAT-2012 (Chandi)]International Update
Case lawsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Indirect taxes
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Indirect taxes
PwC50Case laws
Service tax
Retrospective applicability of service tax on renting immovable 
property services is within the legislative competence of 
Parliament 
Against the order of the Delhi HC in the case of Home Solution Retail India 
Ltd	v.	UOI	[2009	(237)	E.L.T.	209],	a	special	leave	petition	(SLP)	was	filed	
and was pending before the SC. However, the legislature, without waiting 
for	the	decision	of	the	SLP,	amended	the	definition	of	‘taxable	service’	
defined	under	the	renting	of	immovable	property	service	by	the	Finance	
Act	2010.	‘Taxable	service’	was	defined	to	include	‘any	service	provided	or	
to be provided to any person, by any other person, by renting of immovable 
property’. This amendment was given retrospective effect from 1 June 2007. 
This amendment as well as its retrospective effect was under challenge. 
The main argument was that the amendment was not clear but creates a 
substantive liability of taxation upon service providers. The Madhya Pradesh 
HC	in	Entertainment	World	Developers	Ltd	v.	UOI	[2012	(25)	S.T.R.	231]	
held that Parliament’s right to legislate and create liabilities or rights with 
retrospective effect can be curtailed only by a restriction placed upon the 
legislative power of Parliament by the provisions of the Constitution of 
India. No provision of the Constitution was shown which restricts the right 
of Parliament to legislate retrospectively creating a tax liability. Therefore, 
retrospective applicability of service tax on the renting on immovable 
services was within the legislative competence of Parliament.
Service tax paid on exempt services can be claimed as refund 
The Mumbai Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) 
in	the	case	of	Crown	Products	Pvt	Ltd	v.	CCE	[2012]	TIOL	(975)]	has	held	
that there is no bar in the Finance Act 1994 (service tax) on the assessee 
from paying tax on exempt services and claiming refund thereafter 
afterwards. It was also held that section 5A(1A) of the Central Excise Act, 
1944 prohibits the payment of tax in respect of exempted goods and not 
service tax on services.
The term ‘business’ need not necessarily imply a profit element 
The Punjab & Haryana HC in the case of Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation 
v.	UOI	[2012	(25)	S.T.R.	122]	held	that	for	taxing	statutes	the	term	
‘business’	need	not	necessarily	imply	a	profit	element	and	would	cover	all	
services undertaken as a matter of occupation.Trademark licensing agreement is not a ‘transfer of right to use’ 
or ‘sale of goods’ 
In	the	case	of	Eicher	Good	Earth	Ltd	v.	CST	[2012-TIOL-579],	the	Delhi	
CESTAT held that a trademark licensing agreement is not a ‘transfer of 
right to use’ or ‘sale of goods’ but only a permission for temporary use 
of the trademark which continues to be the property of the licensor and 
is chargeable to service tax under the category of intellectual property 
services.
Income tax paid in India on behalf of a foreign service provider is 
to be included in the ‘gross amount for payment of service tax on a 
reverse charge basis 
In	the	case	of	TVS	Motor	Company	Ltd	v.	CCE	[2012]	TIOL	(1639),	the	
Madras	CESTAT	held	the	following:
•	 The liability to pay service tax on services received from outside India 
on a reverse charge basis under section 66A of the Finance Act, 1994 
arises only from 18 April 2006.
•	 Where the consideration for such services are paid net of taxes, the 
amount of income tax directly deposited by the service receiver in India 
on behalf of the foreign service provider should be included in the gross 
amount for service tax valuation purposes.
Permitting the use of a trademark, though on a permanent basis, 
would still qualify as ‘intellectual property rights’ services 
The Delhi CESTAT in the case of Eicher Good Earth Ltd v. CST [2012] 
(28) S.T.R. (279) has held that the transaction of permitting the use of 
the trademark ‘Eicher’ for limited purposes but permanently, while it 
still remains the property of the licensor and the licensee is bound by the 
conditions of transfer in perpetuity, would qualify as ‘intellectual property 
right’ services and be liable to service tax.
Customs and foreign trade policy
Refund of special additional duty cannot be denied where 
imported goods are given to consumers on a right to use basis 
The Delhi CESTAT in the case of CC v. Reliance Communications 
Infrastructure	Ltd	[2012-TIOL-499],	held	that	the	refund	of	special	
additional duty (SAD) cannot be denied where imported goods are not sold 
but are given to consumers on a ‘right to use’ basis since the transfer of the 
right	to	use	is	covered	under	the	definition	of	sale	provided	under	various	
sales tax/value added tax (VAT) acts and is considered as deemed sale.Case laws
Circulars	and	NotificationsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Indirect taxes
PwC51Customs duty is levied according to the rates applicable to 
software 
The	Bangalore	CESTAT	in	the	case	of	Bharti	Airtel	Ltd	v.	CC	[2012	-TIOL-	
746], held that the value of software is to be included in the value of the 
hardware, in the case software is pre-loaded on hardware to arrive at the 
assessable value for the purposes of the levy of customs duty. The duty so 
levied will be according to the rates applicable to hardware.
SAD is applicable in the case of a VAT exemption 
In American Power Conversion Pvt Ltd v. CCE [2012 (280) ELT 139], 
the Bangalore CESTAT held that where an export-oriented unit has been 
given special dispensation by the state government from the levy of VAT or 
sales tax, such units will not be exempt from SAD on domestic tariff area 
clearances.	This	is	on	the	basis	that	such	units	do	not	fulfil	the	condition	of	
exemption	notification,	which	stipulates	that	to	be	exempt	from	SAD	the	
goods should not be exempt from VAT or sales tax.
Importer is entitled to claim the benefit under the a notification 
that provides the higher benefit 
While relying on the decision of the SC ruling in various cases, the 
Ahmedabad	CESTAT,	in	the	case	of	CC	v.	Mangalam	Alloys	Ltd	[2012-TIOL-
737]	held	that	where	there	are	two	exemption	notifications	that	cover	
goods,	the	importer	is	entitled	to	the	benefit	of	the	exemption	notification	
that gives him or her higher relief. 
Customs authorities cannot unilaterally alter the amount 
of a duty entitlement pass book scheme scrip issued by DGFT 
authorities on the basis of export documents 
The Bangalore CESTAT, in the case of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd v. CC 
[2012] (284) ELT (545) has held that the freight charges including fuel 
surcharge charges, security charge for carrier, etc. are to be deducted from 
the cost insurance freight value in order to arrive at the free on board value 
of exported goods. Furthermore, the customs authorities cannot unilaterally 
alter the amount of duty entitlement pass book scheme scrip issued by the 
DGFT	authorities	on	the	basis	of	export	documents.	Such	modification	can	
be done only by referring the matter to the DGFT authorities. VAT
Delhi VAT provisions do not provide for a sub-contractor's 
deduction from the main contractor’s turnover 
The	Delhi	HC	in	the	case	of	Larsen	and	Toubro	Ltd	and	another	v.	UOI	
[(2012) VIL-40-DEL] upheld the validity of the Delhi VAT provision which 
does not provide for a sub-contractor’s deduction in the hands of the main 
contractor as such deduction is available through a separate mechanism of 
claiming input tax credit of the VAT charged by the sub-contractor. 
Goods kept in a customs bonded warehouse deemed to be outside 
the customs frontier of India 
The SC in the case of Hotel Ashoka v. ACCT [(2012) VIL 03 (SC)] held that 
sales by duty free shops situated at international airports both to inbound 
and outbound passengers were made before/after the goods have crossed 
the customs frontiers of India. Consequently, such sales are not liable to 
sales tax as they qualify as sale in the course of imports/exports covered by 
section 5 of the CST Act 1956.
Import of goods for leasing purposes in India are not liable to VAT 
The Madras HC in case of State of Tamil Nadu v. Karnataka Bank Ltd 
[(2012) 50 VST 93 (Mad)] held that transactions involving import of 
goods from outside India for leasing to an Indian client on a monthly rental 
basis qualify as ‘lease in the course of import’ so long as there exists an 
inextricable link between the import of goods and their subsequent lease in 
India.
Sale and lease back transaction structured to raise funds to carry 
out business in substance is a financial transaction not liable to 
VAT 
The Karnataka HC in the case of State of Karnataka v. Khoday India Ltd 
[2012-52-VST-204] held that a sale and lease back transaction executed 
to raise the requisite funds for carrying out business is in substance a loan 
transaction not liable to VAT. The Court has the power to scrutinise the 
documents and determine the nature of the transaction, whatever be the 
form of the documents.Case laws
Circulars	and	NotificationsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Indirect taxes
PwC52Free of cost replacement of spare parts is liable to sales tax 
The Mumbai HC in the case of Navnit Motors Pvt Ltd v. State of Maharashtra 
[2012 (47) VST 511] relying on the SC decision in Mohd. Ekram Khan and 
Sons v. Commissioner of Trade Tax [(2004) 136 STC 515 (SC)] held that 
the transactions involving free of cost replacement of spare parts under the 
warranty arrangement where the cost of such spare parts are subsequently 
reimbursed by the manufacturer by issue of a credit note are covered under 
the	definition	of	sales	and	hence	liable	to	sales	tax.
Excise
Central value-added tax credit cannot be denied on capital goods 
used initially in the manufacture of exempted goods 
The Karnataka HC in the case of CCE v. Kailash Auto Builders Ltd [2012 
(280) ELT (949)] held that central value added tax (CENVAT) credit on 
capital	goods	used	for	the	manufacture	of	a	dutiable	and	exempted	final	
product cannot be denied merely because in the beginning such capital 
goods were used only in the manufacture of exempted goods. 
CENVAT credit is admissible on goods transport agency services 
used for bringing empty containers 
In Century Rayon v. CCE [2012 (280) ELT 561], the Mumbai CESTAT 
has held that CENVAT credit is admissible on goods transport agency 
services used for bringing empty containers to the factory and thereafter 
transporting the loaded containers to the port of export and not splitting 
these charges will not disentitle the CENVAT credit.
Cost accountant’s report can be referred to where the transaction 
value is not the sole consideration 
The	SC	in	the	case	of	Fiat	India	Pvt	Ltd	[2012-TIOL-58-SC-CX]	held	that	
selling cars at a wholesale price which is less than the cost of production, 
even if it is to counter the competition in the market, cannot be considered 
as sale at a normal price. Since here the ‘transaction value’ is not the sole 
consideration and the assessing authority was not able to derive value for 
the extra consideration, there is nothing wrong in their resorting to best 
judgement assessment and arriving at a value, on the basis of the cost 
accountant’s report.Circulars and notifications
Service tax
Introduction of negative list approach
Entry 97 of List I of the VII schedule of Article 246 of the Constitution of 
India entrusts upon a residuary power to the central government the ability 
to formulate laws which have not been included in List I or II of the said 
schedule. The central government in the year 1994 introduced entry no. 
92C 'tax on services'. Chapter V of the Finance Act, 1994 encompasses the 
provision relating to the taxation of services. The said regime evolved over a 
period of years with the scope of taxable services expanding to 118 services. 
The Budget 2012 ushered a new system of taxation of services, commonly 
known as the ‘negative list approach’. The Central Board of Excise & 
Customs	(CBEC)	has	come	out	with	a	series	of	notifications	to	appoint	1	July	
2012 as the effective date for applicability of service taxation based on the 
‘negative list’ approach.
Important	changes	under	the	said	approach	are	as	follows:
•	The	earlier	provisions	related	to	classification	of	services	of	the	Finance	
Act 1994 have been made inoperative and are replaced with the 
concept of the negative list approach. 
•	The	government	also	defined	the	term	'service',	which	also	included	
defining	the	term	'declared	service'	and	excluded	certain	transactions.
•	 Service tax shall now be levied on all services 'provided or agreed to 
be	provided'	in	the	taxable	territory,	other	than	the	services	specified	
in	the	negative	list	and	mentioned	in	the	mega	exemption	notification	
wherein outright exemption from service tax has been provided to 39 
services.
•	 The concept of 'bundled services' was also introduced.
•	 The government replaced the Export of Service Rules 2005 and 
Taxation of Services (provided from outside India and received in 
India) Rules 2006 (commonly known as Import Rules) by a set of 14 
new rules known as 'Place of Provision of Service Rules 2012' by means 
of which the place of provision of a service would be determined.Case laws
Circulars	and	NotificationsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Indirect taxes
PwC53•	 The government has also removed the concept of composition scheme 
under the work contract service.
•	 The government has also introduced the reverse charge mechanism on 
certain domestically procured services.
•	 Amendments have been made in the Point of Taxation Rules, 2011 so as 
to bring them in line with the new regime of service tax.
Service tax notification no(s). 19/2012 to 23/2012 dated 5 June 2012, 25/2012, 
26.2012, 28/2012 and 30/2012 dated 20 June 2012 
No service tax on amounts of foreign currency remitted to India 
from overseas
The	CBEC	has	clarified	that	there	is	no	service	tax	to	be	levied	per	se	on	
amounts of foreign currency remitted to India from overseas. It is merely a 
transaction	in	money,	excluded	from	the	definition	of	'service'	effective	from	
1 July 2012.
Circular no 163/14/2012-ST dated 10 July 2012
Customs/foreign trade policy
Refund of terminal excise duty available on deemed exports can 
be claimed by the recipient of goods on production of documents
The central government has provided that the refund of terminal excise duty 
(TED) available on deemed exports can also be claimed by the recipient of 
the goods on production of an appropriate disclaimer to be obtained from 
the	supplier	of	goods	specified	in	form	ANF-8.	This	public	notice	shall	be	
effective from 1 March 2011. The format of ABF-8 has also been issued.
Public notice no 21 (RE-2012)/ 2009-2014 dated 21 November 2012List of products eligible for concessional basic customs duty 
amended
The central government has amended the list of products eligible for 
concessional basic customs duty on their import under the following 
agreements:
•	 India-Japan Free Trade Agreement
•	 South Asian Free Trade Agreement
•	 India-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement
•	 India-Malaysia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement
•	Customs	notification	no	124/2011	to	128/2011	dated	30	December	
2011 
CENVAT
Interest not payable on use of wrong CENVAT credit
The government substituted the words ‘taken or utilised wrongly’ by the 
words ‘taken and utilised wrongly’ in Rule 14 of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 
so as to provide clarity on the applicability of interest on the wrong use 
of CENVAT credit. This implies that if a person avails CENVAT credit and 
subsequently utilises it, then the interest shall be payable from the date of 
utilisation. If he or she reverses it, no interest shall be payable.
Excise notification 18/2012 dated 17 March 2012  Case laws
Circulars	and	NotificationsCorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Regulatory
Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC55Regulatory
FEMA
Contraventions
Compounding of contraventions under FEMA 
For the purpose of achieving operational convenience, the RBI has 
stipulated that the following contraventions under FEMA will be 
compounded	by	its	Regional	Offices:
Contraventions for compounding Amount involved 
in contraventionPossible action
•	Delay in reporting of inward 
remittance (Sub-regulation 9(1)(A) 
of Schedule I to FEMA 20/2000-RB)
•	Delay	in	filing	of	form	FC-GPR	(Sub-
regulation 9(1)(B) of Schedule I to 
FEMA 20/2000-RB)
•	Delay in issue of shares beyond 180 
days (Sub-regulation 8 of Schedule I 
to FEMA 20/2000-RB)Without any limit Ahmedabad, 
Bangalore, Chennai, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, 
Mumbai or New Delhi
•	Delay in reporting of inward 
remittance (Sub-regulation 9(1)(A) 
of Schedule I to FEMA 20/2000-RB)
•	Delay	in	filing	of	form	FC-GPR	(Sub-
regulation 9(1)(B) of Schedule I to 
FEMA 20/2000-RB)Up to INR 10 million Bhopal, 
Bhubaneshwar, 
Chandigarh, 
Guwahati, Jaipur, 
Jammu, Kanpur, 
Kochi, Patna or Panaji
Contravention not covered above, as per provisions of FEMA Central	Office	of	RBI,	
Mumbai
To bring about uniformity and completeness in compounding applications, 
the	RBI	has	specified	a	format	for	relevant	information,	documentation	and	
undertaking to be submitted by applicants. This applies to contravention 
of the regulations mentioned above as well as regulations pertaining to 
overseas direct investments, external commercial borrowings (ECB) and 
branch/liaison	offices.
AP (DIR Series) circular No. 11 dated 31 July 2012Regulation and Management of FEMA
Trade credits for imports of capital goods by infrastructure 
sector 
The RBI has permitted companies in the infrastructure sector (where 
“infrastructure”	is	as	defined	under	the	extant	guidelines	on	ECB	to	avail	
trade	credit	up	to	a	maximum	period	of	five	years	(enhanced	from	three	
years)	for	import	of	capital	goods	subject	to	the	following:
•	Minimum	period	of	trade	credit	must	be	at	least	fifteen	months.	
However, it should not be in the nature of short-term roll-overs
•	 AD (Authorised Dealer) banks will not be permitted to issue letters of 
credit, guarantees, letter of undertaking, letter of comfort in favour 
of	overseas	supplier,	bank	and	financial	institution	for	the	extended	
period beyond three years
•	 All-in-cost ceilings shall remain at 350 basis points over six months 
LIBOR	for	the	respective	currency.
A.P. (DIR Series) circular No. 28 dated 11th September, 2012
Revised format for annual return on foreign liabilities and 
assets reporting by Indian companies to be filed on or before 15 
July 2012
The RBI has issued a circular on 15 March 2011 whereby Indian 
companies which have received FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) and/or 
made overseas investments are required to submit an annual return on 
foreign liabilities and assets.
The RBI has now provided a revised format of the annual return in a soft 
form	with	in-built	validations.	The	soft	forms	should	be	filled,	validated	
and sent by e-mail by 15 July annually.
A.P. (DIR Series) RBI/2011-12/613 circular no. 133 dated 20 June 2012
RBI re-opens foreign currency convertible bonds buyback 
window
The RBI has continued its scheme of prepayment/buyback of foreign 
currency convertible bonds (FCCB). The RBI now will consider proposals 
from Indian companies for buyback of FCCBs under the approval route 
subject	to	the	following	conditions:
•	The	buyback	value	of	FCCBs	is	at	a	minimum	discount	of	5%	on	the	
accreted value.FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC56•	 In the case the issuer is planning to raise a foreign currency borrowing 
for buyback of FCCBs, all applicable rules/ regulations relating to 
foreign currency borrowing under FEMA will need to be complied with.
•	Other	general	conditions	stipulated	in	paragraph	5	of	RBI’s	AP	(DIR	
Series)	circular	no	39	dated	8	December	2008		such	as:
•	extant guidelines should be complied with, 
•	FCCB should be registered with the RBI, 
•	no proceedings for contravention of FEMA against the company 
should exist, etc
The facility is effective from the date of the circular and the entire process 
of buyback should be completed by 31 March 2013 after which the scheme 
lapses.
On	completion	of	the	buyback,	a	report	giving	details	of	buyback,	such	as		
the outstanding amount of FCCBs, accreted value of FCCBs bought back, 
rate at which FCCBs bought back, amount involved, and source/s of funds 
may be submitted, through the designated AD bank to the RBI.
A P (DIR) circular no 1 dated 5 July 2012, circular 64 dated 5 January, 2012
External Commercial Borrowing
External Commercial Borrowing - Repayment of Rupee loans and/
or fresh Rupee capital expenditure – USD 10 billion scheme
As per the extant guidelines, the maximum permissible ECB that can be 
availed of by an individual company under the scheme is limited to 50 per 
cent of the average annual export earnings realised during the past three 
financial	years.
On	a	review,	it	has	been	decided:
•	 to enhance the maximum permissible limit of ECB that can be availed 
of to 75 per cent of the average foreign exchange earnings  realised 
during	the	immediate	past	three	financial	years	or	50	per	cent	of	the	
highest foreign exchange earnings realised in any of the immediate past 
three	financial	years,	whichever	is	higher;
•	 in case of Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs), which have completed at 
least one year of existence from the date of incorporation and do not 
have	sufficient	track	record/past	performance	for	three	financial	years,	
the maximum permissible ECB that can be availed of will be limited 
to 50 per cent of the annual export earnings realised during the past 
financial	year;	and•	 The maximum ECB that can be availed by an individual company or 
group, as a whole, under this scheme will be restricted to USD 3 billion.
A.P. (DIR Series) circular No. 26 dated 11th September, 2012
ECB for replacing bridge finance availed by infrastructure 
companies 
Presently, infrastructure companies are allowed to import capital goods 
by availing of short-term credit (including buyers or suppliers’ credit) in 
the	nature	of	bridge	finance	under	the	approval	route	provided	the	bridge	
finance	is	replaced	by	an	ECB	with	the	prior	approval	of	the	RBI.
Thus,	it	required	RBI	approval	at	two	stages	i.e	while	availing	bridge	finance	
and while replacing it with ECB
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 27 dated 11th September, 2012
The RBI has liberalised the ECB policy to permit replacement of bridge 
finance	(in	the	nature	of	buyers’	or	suppliers’	credit)	by	an	ECB	under	the	
automatic	route,	provided	it	is	refinanced	before	the	maximum	permissible	
period	of	trade	credit	and	the	bill	of	entry	is	available	for	verification.
Relaxation in ECB-liability (debt)-equity ratio and percentage of 
shareholding: Automatic route
ECB can be availed by successful bidders under the automatic route from 
their ultimate parent company (holding directly or indirectly minimum 
paid-up	equity	of	25%)	for	payment	of	2G	spectrum	fees	without	any	
maximum ECB liability (debt)-equity ratio.  
Bridge finance facility: Automatic route
Short	term	foreign	currency	loan	in	the	nature	of	bridge	finance	can	be	
availed under the automatic route for making upfront payment towards 2G 
spectrum allocation. The borrower can, under the automatic route, replace 
the short-term loan with a long term ECB, which is raised within a period of 
18	months	from	the	date	of	the	drawdown	of	bridge	finance.
These relaxations would enable the successful bidders to avail ECB under 
the automatic route and facilitate the payment of spectrum allocation.
External Commercial Borrowing - Liberalisation and 
rationalisation
It has been decided to further rationalise and liberalise the extant guidelines 
as	under:-
•	Enhancement	of	refinancing	limit	for	Power	Sector	Indian	companies	Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC57in the power sector will be allowed to utilise 40 per cent of the fresh 
ECB	raised	towards	refinancing	of	the	Rupee	loan/s	availed	by	them	
from the domestic banking system, under the approval route, subject to 
the condition that at least 60 per cent of the fresh ECB proposed to be 
raised should be utilised for fresh capital expenditure for infrastructure 
project(s).	All	other	terms	and	conditions	relating	to	refinancing	of	
Rupee loans mentioned in A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 25 dated 
September 23, 2011 remain unchanged.
•	 ECB for maintenance and operation of toll systems for roads and 
highways
ECBs would also be allowed for capital expenditure under the automatic 
route for the purpose of maintenance and operations of toll systems for 
roads and highways provided they form part of the original project.
A. P. (DIR Series) circular No. 111 dated 20th April, 2012
External Commercial Borrowing - Refinancing/rescheduling of 
ECB
On	a	review,	it	has	been	decided	that	the	borrowers	desirous	of	refinancing	
an existing ECB can raise fresh ECB at a higher all-in-cost/reschedule an 
existing ECB at a higher all-in-cost under the approval route subject to 
the condition that the enhanced all-in-cost does not exceed the all-in-cost 
ceiling prescribed as per the extant guidelines.
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 112 dated 20th April 2012
External Commercial Borrowing - Civil Aviation Sector
As per the extant guidelines, availing of ECB for working capital is not a 
permissible	end-use.	On	a	review	of	the	policy	related	to	ECB	and	keeping	
in view the announcement made in the Union Budget for the year 2012-
13, it has been decided to allow ECB for working capital as a permissible 
end-use for the civil aviation sector, under the approval route, subject to the 
following	conditions:
•	 Airline companies registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and 
possessing scheduled operator permit license from Director General for 
Civil Aviation (DGCA) for passenger transportation are eligible to avail 
of ECB for working capital;
•	ECB	will	be	allowed	to	the	airline	companies	based	on	the	cash	flow,	
foreign exchange earnings and its capability to service the debt;
•	 The ECB for working capital should be raised within 12 months from 
the date of issue of the circular; •	 The ECB can be raised with a minimum average maturity period of 
three years; and
•	 The overall ECB ceiling for the entire civil aviation sector would be USD 
one billion and the maximum permissible ECB that can be availed by 
an individual airline company will be USD 300 million. This limit can 
be	utilized	for	working	capital	as	well	as	refinancing	of	the	outstanding	
working capital Rupee loan(s) availed of from the domestic banking 
system. Airline companies desirous of availing of such ECBs for 
refinancing	 their	working	 capital	Rupee	loans	may	submit	the	necessary	
certification	from	the	domestic	lender/s	regarding	the	outstanding	
Rupee loan/s. 
A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 113 dated 24th April, 2012
External Commercial Borrowing - Low cost affordable housing 
projects
•	 RBI has allowed ECB for low cost affordable housing projects as a 
permissible end-use, under the approval route. ECB can be availed of by 
developers/builders for low cost affordable housing projects. Housing 
Finance Companies (HFCs)/National Housing Bank (NHB) can also 
avail	of	ECB	for	financing	prospective	owners	of	low	cost	affordable	
housing units.
AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 61
Outbound regulations
Liberalisation in overseas direct investment by resident 
individuals  
The RBI has liberalised the guidelines for outbound investment by resident 
individuals on considering the recommendations of the committee that 
reviewed the facilities for individuals under the FEMA. 
The	highlights	of	the	recommendations	adopted	are	as	follows:
•	It	is	clarified	that	if	resident	individuals	acquire	the	shares	of	a	
foreign company towards professional services or in lieu of directors’ 
remuneration, they are required to obtain general permission from 
the RBI, provided the value of the shares is within the overall ceiling 
prescribed for resident individuals under the liberalised remittance 
scheme which is presently USD 200,000.
•	 Resident individuals are required to obtain general permission from 
the	RBI	for	acquiring	qualification	shares	of	an	overseas	company	for	
holding	the	post	of	a	director	provided:Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC58•	The	number	of	qualification	shares	does	not	exceed	the	prescribed	limit	
in the host country
•	 The value of shares is within the prescribed ceiling under the liberalised 
remittance scheme, which is presently  USD 200,000
•	 With respect to resident individuals acquiring shares in a foreign 
company through the employee stock option plan, the RBI has removed 
the condition regarding the foreign company’s direct or indirect equity 
stake in the Indian company, leaving the other conditions unchanged 
and requiring general permission from the RBI.
A.P. (DIR Series) circular no 97 dated 28 March 2012
Inbound Investment
QFIs permitted to invest in equity shares of listed Indian 
Companies
The	RBI	has	permitted	qualified	foreign	investors	(QFI)	to	invest	in	equity	
shares	of	Indian	listed	companies	through	SEBI	registered	DPs	or	recognized	
brokers on recognised stock exchanges in India. The key features are as 
under:
•	 Eligibility:  Non-resident investors from jurisdictions that are compliant 
with Financial Action Task Force (FATF) standards and signatories 
to	International	Organization	of	Securities	Commission	(IOSCO)	are	
eligible to invest.
•	 Investment can be made on repatriation basis in eligible 
transactions:
	−Acquisition of shares over stock exchange.
	−Acquisition of shares which are offered to public i.e. through Initial 
Public	Offer	(IPO).
	−Acquisition of rights shares, bonus shares, or equity shares on 
account of stock split/consolidation or equity shares on account of 
amalgamation, demerger.
•	Investment	limits:	Individual	and	aggregate	ceiling	is	5%	and	10%	
respectively. This limit shall be over and above NRI and FII limit. 
However, these investments will be subject to overall sectoral caps 
prescribed under the FDI policy.
•	 Pricing:  The pricing of all eligible transactions and investment shall be 
in accordance with applicable SEBI guidelines.•	 Transfer:  QFIs can sell the above shares over the stock exchange, under 
a buy-back scheme, offer for sale, public offer triggered under takeover 
code provisions.
A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No.66 dated January 13, 2012
Prior intimation of raising aggregate foreign institutional 
investors/non-resident investor limits for investment under 
portfolio investment schemes is required 
The	RBI	through	a	circular	has	clarified	that	an	Indian	company	raising	the	
aggregate	FII	investment	limit	of	24%	to	the	sectoral	cap	or	statutory		limit,	
as	applicable,	or		raising	the	aggregate	NRI	investment	limit	of	10%	to	24%		
should	communicate	this	to	the	RBI	immediately,	along	with	a	certificate	
from the company secretary stating that all relevant provisions of the extant 
FEMA regulations and the FDI policy (as amended from time to time) have 
been complied with.
Additionally, the RBI has stated the manner in which it monitors applicable 
ceilings	on	investments	by	FIIs,	NRIs	and	persons	of	Indian	origin	(PIOs)	in	
Indian companies on a daily basis. 
For effective monitoring of foreign investment ceiling limits, the RBI has 
fixed	cut-off	points	that	are	two	percentage	points	lower	than	the	actual	
ceilings. When the aggregate net purchases of equity shares of the company 
of	FIIs,	NRIs	and	PIOs	reaches	the	cut-off	point	of	two	percentage	points	
below the overall limit, the RBI cautions all designated bank branches not to 
purchase any more equity shares of the respective company on behalf of any 
FIIs,	NRIs	or	PIOs	without	prior	approval	of	the	RBI.
On	receipt	of	proposals	through	link	offices,	the	RBI	gives	clearances	on	
a	first-come-first-served	basis	to	further	invest	until	such	investments	in	
companies reach the respective limits, as applicable. 
On	reaching	the	aggregate	ceiling	limit,	the	RBI	advises	all	designated	bank	
branches	 to	stop	purchases	 on	behalf	of	their	FIIs,	NRIs	and	PIOs	clients.	The	
RBI also informs the general public about the ‘caution’ and ‘stop purchase’ 
advise in relation to these companies through a press release.
A.P.(DIR Series) circular no. 94 dated 19 March 2012
Foreign Direct Investment
Foreign direct investments retail trading
The consolidated Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy effective 10 April 
2012 (circular 1 of 2012) was amended with effect from 20 September 2012 
through press notes (2012 series). Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC59•	 FDI in retail trading [press notes 4 and 5 (2012 series)] Single-brand 
product retail trading (SBRT)
•	100%	FDI	is	allowed	for	undertaking	 single	brand	retail	trading	with	
prior	government	approval.	In	case	FDI	is	up	to	51%,	sourcing	from	
India	is	not	mandatory.	However,	beyond	51%,	sourcing	of	30%	of	
the value of goods purchased should be done from India preferably 
micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), and village and 
cottage industries.
•	It is aimed at attracting investment in production and marketing, 
improving the availability of goods for consumers and enhancing 
the competitiveness of Indian enterprises.
•	The product should be of a single brand. It should be sold under 
the same brand internationally and should be branded during 
manufacturing.
•	The foreign investor should be the owner of the products.
•	Only	one	non-resident	entity,	whether	the	owner	or	franchisee	or	
Licensee/ sub-licensee of the brand, shall be permitted to undertake 
SBRT	in	India	for	that	specific	brand,	through	an	agreement,	with	
the brand owner.
•	The onus for ensuring compliance will be the responsibility of the 
Indian entity carrying out SBRT in India. 
•	Retail trading in any form by means of e-commerce will not be 
permissible for companies with FDI engaged in the activity of SBRT.
•	Applications	will	specifically	indicate	product	categories	proposed	
to be sold under a ‘single brand’. Any addition to the product will 
require the fresh approval of the government.
•	 Multi-brand retail trading (MBRT)
•	FDI	in	MBRT	is	permitted	for	all	products	up	to	51%	with	
government approval.
•	Fresh	agricultural	produce,	including	fruits,	vegetables,	flowers,	
grains,	pulses,	fresh	poultry,	fish	and	meat	products,	may	be	
unbranded.
•	The minimum amount to be brought in as FDI by the foreign 
investor will be USD 100 million. 
•	At	least	50%	of	total	FDI	brought	in	shall	be	invested	in	‘backend	
infrastructure’	within	three	years	of	the	first	tranche	of	FDI.	
‘Backend infrastructure’ will include capital expenditure on 
all activities, excluding that on front-end units, investment 
made towards processing, manufacturing, distribution, design improvement, quality control, packaging, logistics, storage, 
warehouse, agriculture market produce infrastructure, etc. 
However, expenditure on land cost and rentals, if any, will not be 
counted for the purposes of backend infrastructure.
•	At	least	30%	of	the	value	of	procurement	of	manufactured,	
processed products purchased shall be sourced from Indian ‘small 
industries’ which have a total investment in plant and machinery 
not exceeding USD 1 million. This valuation refers to the value 
at the time of installation, without providing for depreciation. 
Furthermore, if at any point in time this valuation is exceeded, the 
industry shall not qualify as a ‘small industry’ for this purpose. 
•	This procurement requirement will have to be met, in the 
first	instance,	as	an	average	of	five	years’	total	value	of	the	
manufactured, processed products purchased, beginning 1 April 
of	the	year	during	which	the	first	tranche	of	FDI	is	received.	
Thereafter, it will have to be met on an annual basis.
•	Retail trading in any form by means of e-commerce will not be 
permissible for companies with FDI engaged in the activity of MBRT.
•	Retail sales outlets may be set up only in cities with a population 
of more than 10 lakh  according to the 2011 Census, which may 
also cover an area of 10 kms around the municipal or urban 
agglomeration limits of such cities. However, in the case of states 
and union territories not having cities with a population of more 
than 10 lakh according to the 2011 Census, retail sales outlets may 
be set up in cities of their choice, preferably the largest city, which 
may also cover an area of 10 kms around the municipal and urban 
agglomeration limits of such cities.
•	The	government	will	have	the	first	right	to	the	procurement	of	
agricultural products.
•	This policy is an enabling policy only and the state governments and 
union territories will be free to take their own decisions with regard 
to the implementation of the policy. 
In both SBRT and MBRT, the quantum of domestic sourcing will be self-
certified	by	the	company,	to	be	subsequently	checked,	by	statutory	auditors,	
from	the	duly	certified	accounts	which	the	company	will	be	required	to	
maintain. 
Applications seeking permission of the government for FDI in retail trading 
of single-brand or multi-brand products will be made to the Secretariat 
for Industrial Assistance (SIA) in the Department of Industrial Policy and 
Promotion (DIPP). Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC60FDI in civil aviation [press note 6 (2012 series)] Salient features 
of the FDI policy in the civil aviation sector
Contraventions for 
compoundingAmount involved 
in contraventionPossible action
Scheduled air transport service/
domestic scheduled passenger 
airline49%	FDI	(100%	for	
NRIs)Automatic
Non-scheduled air transport 
service74%	FDI	(100%	for	
NRIs)Up	to	49%	-	automatic	
49%	to	74%	-	
government approval
Helicopter services/seaplane 
services requiring DGCA approval100% Automatic
FDI policy broadcasting content services
Particulars Percentage FDI Means of entry
Terrestrial broadcasting (FM 
radio) subject to conditions 
specified	by	Ministry	of	
Information and Broadcasting 26% Government approval
Uplinking of ‘news and current 
affairs’ TV channels26% Government approval
Uplinking  of non-‘news and 
current affairs’ TV channels/
downlinking of TV channels100% Government approval
FDI policy broadcasting content services
Particulars Percentage FDI Means of entry
•	Teleports (setting up of uplinking HUBs/
teleports)
•	Direct-to-home (DTH) 
•	Cable networks (multi-system operating 
at national or state or district level and 
undertaking upgradation of networks 
towards digitalisation and addressability)
•	Mobile TV
•	Headend-in-the sky (HITS)
•	Broadcasting service 74% Up	to	49%-	
automatic 
Exceeding 
49%	to	74%	
- government 
approval
Cable	networks	(other	MSOs	not	
undertaking upgradation of networks 
towards digitalisation and addressability and 
local	cable	operators	(LCOs))49% Automatic routeOther	conditions	
•	 Air transport services will include domestic scheduled passenger 
airlines, non-scheduled air transport services, helicopter and seaplane 
services.
•	 Foreign airlines are allowed to participate in the equity of companies 
operating cargo airlines, helicopter and seaplane services, in 
accordance with the limits and entry routes.
•	 Foreign airlines are also, henceforth, allowed to invest in the capital 
of Indian companies operating scheduled and non-scheduled air 
transport	services,	up	to	the	limit	of	49%	of	their	paid-up	capital.	Such	
investment	would	be	subject	to	the	following	conditions:
	−It would be made under the government approval route.
	−The	49%	limit	will	subsume	FDI	and	FII	investment.
	−The investment so made will need to comply with the relevant 
regulations of SEBI, such as the Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements (ICDR) Regulations/ Substantial Acquisition 
of Shares and Takeovers (SAST) Regulations, as well as other 
applicable rules and regulations.
	−A scheduled operator's permit can be granted only to a company if it 
meets	the	following	requirements:
•	It is registered and has its principal place of business within India.
•	The	chairman	and	at	least	two-thirds	of	the	directors	are	citizens	
of India.•	Substantial ownership and effective control of the company is 
vested in Indian nationals.
•	All foreign nationals likely to be associated with Indian scheduled 
and non-scheduled air transport services, as a result of such 
investment, shall be cleared from a security viewpoint before 
deployment.
•	All technical equipment that might be imported into India as a 
result of such investment shall require clearance from the relevant 
authority in the Ministry of Civil Aviation.
FDI in the broadcasting sector [press note 7 (2012 series)] Salient 
features of the FDI policy in the broadcasting sectorRegulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC61Other	conditions
•	 FDI for uplinking and downlinking TV channels will be subject to 
compliance with the relevant uplinking and downlinking policy 
announced by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting from time 
to time.
•	 The foreign investment limit in companies engaged in the above 
activities shall include, in addition to FDI, investment by FIls, NRIs, 
foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs), American depository 
receipts (ADRs), global depository receipts (GDRs) and convertible 
preference shares held by foreign entities.
Additional security conditions
•	 Key executives of the company
	−The majority of directors on the board of the company shall be 
Indian	citizens.
	−The	chief	executive	officer	(CEO),	chief	officer	in-charge	of	
technical	network	operations	and	chief	security	officer	should	be	
resident	Indian	citizens.
•	Security	clearance	would	be	required	for	the	following:
	−The company.
	−All directors on the board.
	−Key	executives	like	MD,	CEO,	CFO,	CSO,	CTO,	and	shareholders	
who	individually	hold	10%	or	more	paid-up	capital	in	the	company.
	−All foreign personnel likely to be deployed for more than 60 days 
in a year by way of appointment, contract, and consultancy or in 
any other capacity for installation, maintenance, operation or any 
other services prior to their deployment. The security clearance is 
required to be obtained every two years.
FDI in power exchanges [press note 8(2012 series)] Salient 
features of the FDI policy in the power sector
Particulars Percentage FDI Means of entry
Power exchanges registered under 
Central Electricity Regulatory 
Commission (Power Market) 
Regulations, 201049%	(FDI	and	FII)	
subject to
26%	-	maximum	FDI
23%	-	maximum	FIIFor FDI – 
government route
For FII investment – 
automatic routeOther	conditions
•	 FII purchases shall be restricted to a secondary market only.
•	 No non-resident investor or entity, including persons acting in concert, 
will	hold	more	than	5%	of	the	equity	in	the	company.	
Also, the foreign investment should be in compliance with SEBI regulations, 
other applicable laws and regulations, and security and other conditions.
Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion - Press Note 2 of 
2012
The	DIPP	has	clarified	that	any	strategic	downstream	investment	made	by	
a bank owned or controlled by non-residents or a non-resident entity made 
under Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR) or other loan restructuring 
mechanism shall not be treated as indirect foreign investment.
This will allow private banks with overseas control to restructure their 
corporate debt, something they were hitherto unable to do due to the FDI 
policy norms. However, ‘strategic downstream investment’ in subsidiaries 
will count towards computation of indirect foreign investment.
Press note 3 of 2012
The Government of India has issued Press Note 3 permitting investment 
from	Pakistan.	Some	of	the	key	aspects	provided	in	the	notification	include:		
•	Citizen	of	Pakistan	or	an	entity	incorporated	in	Pakistan	is	permitted	to	
make investment in India, with prior government approval 
•	 Defence, space and atomic energy sectors are however excluded from 
this	window	available	to	citizens	and	companies	incorporated	in	
Pakistan
Other Circulars
Relaxation of valuation norms for a newly incorporated company 
•	 The Indian Exchange Control regulations requires subscription 
of equity shares, compulsorily convertible preference shares or 
compulsorily convertible debentures (equity instrument) of an Indian 
company by foreign investors under the FDI Scheme to be in compliant 
with the valuation norms. 
•	 As per the present valuation norms, issue price of equity instrument 
by an unlisted Indian company cannot be less than its fair value as 
determined by a SEBI registered merchant banker or a chartered 
accountant	as	per	the	discounted	free	cash	flow	method.	Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC62•	 The RBI has now carved out an exception to the above regulations 
whereby non-residents (including non-resident Indians) proposing 
to make investment in an Indian company in compliance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, by way of subscription to the 
Memorandum of Association i.e. the initial share capital, can make such 
investments at face value. 
•	 The above liberation would enable newly incorporated Indian 
subsidiaries of foreign entities to issue equity instruments at face value 
without	applying	discounted	free	cash	flow	valuation	method.
AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 36 dated 26 September, 2012
Setting up of step-down (operating) subsidiaries by Non Banking 
Financial Companies (NBFC) having foreign investment 
•	Presently,	only	100%	foreign	owned	NBFCs	with	a	minimum	
capitalisation of 50 million USD were permitted to set up a step-down 
subsidiary	for	specific	NBFC	activities,	without	any	restriction	on	the	
number of operating subsidiaries and without bringing in additional 
capital. 
•	 The minimum capitalisation condition as mandated by para 3.10.4.1 of 
the DIPP circular 1 of 2012 on Consolidated FDI Policy, therefore, shall 
not apply to downstream subsidiaries.
•	 It has now been decided to extend the above facility even to NBFCs 
which	have	foreign	investment	above	75%	and	below	100%.
Press Note No. 9 (2012 Series) dated 3rd October 2012
Liaison Office
Liaison office (LO)/branch office (BO) /project office (PO)  in 
India - additional reporting requirement
Report needs to be submitted to the Director General of Police (DGP) of the 
State	concerned	in	which	the	office	is	established	within	five	working	days	
of	the	Indian	office	becoming	functional.	
In	case	the	foreign	entity	has	set	up	more	than	one	office	in	India,	such	
report needs to be submitted to each DGP having jurisdiction on the state 
where	the	office	is	established.	
A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 35 dated 25th September, 2012
Annual filing by all Indian offices (new and existing both) 
The	above	report	also	needs	to	be	filed	with	the	DGP	concerned	on	an	annual basis along with a copy of the AAC/AR, as the case may be. 
A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 35 dated 25th September, 2012
Submission of annual statement by a non-resident having a LO
According	to	section	285	of	the	Act,	a	NR	having	a	LO	is	required	to	submit	
an	annual	statement	with	the	assessing	officer	within	a	period	of	60	days.	In	
this regard, Rule 114DA of the Income tax Rules, 1962 (‘the Rules’) provides 
for an annual statement to be provided along with a digital signature in 
Form	49C	which	shall	be	verified	by	a	chartered	accountant.		The	Director	
General	of	Income	tax	(Systems)	shall	specify	the	procedure	for	filing	
the annual statement. The salient features of the annual statement are as 
follows:
•	India	specific	details	relating	to	the	non-resident	such	as	address	of	the	
NR in India, permanent account number of the NR, date of opening of 
the	LO.
•	Nature	of	activities	undertaken	by	the	LO
•	Date	of	RBI	approval	of	the	LO
•	Date	of	submitting	the	annual	activity	certificate		for	the	financial	year	
to the RBI
•	 Details of all purchases, sales of material and services from/to Indian 
parties during the year by the NR person (not limited to transactions 
made	by	the	LO)
•	Name	and	designation	of	the	officer-in-charge	for	each	office	of	the	NR	
person in India
•	 Details of salary/compensation payable outside India for any employee 
working in India
•	Total	number	of	employees	working	in	the	LOS	including	those	
employees drawing salary of  50,000 INR or above
•	Names	and	addresses	of	the	top	five	parties	in	India
•	 Details of products or services for which liaising activity is done by the 
LO
•	Details	of	any	other	entity	for	which	liaising	activity	is	done	by	the	LO
•	Details	of	group	entities	present	in	India	as	branch	offices/companies/
LLPs
•	Details	of	other	LOs	in	India
 Notification No.5/2012[F.NO.142/25/2011-SO(TPL)], Dated 6-2-2012Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC63Establishment of BO/LO in India by foreign entities
The	RBI	through	circular	31/2012	dated	17	September	2012	has	clarified	
that entities such as foreign non-government organisations/foreign 
government bodies/departments are required to apply to the RBI for prior 
permission	to	establish	an	office	in	India,	whether	a	PO	or	otherwise.	It	
should	be	noted	that	according	to	notification	no	FEMA	95/2003,	dated	2	
July	2003,	a	foreign	company	may	open	a	project	office	in	India	provided	it	
has secured a contract from the Indian Government to execute a project in 
India.
A.P.(DIR Series) circular no. 31 dated 17 September 2012 and notification no. 
FEMA 95/2000-RB dated 2 July 2003
Sectoral Guidelines
Telecommunications
Revised license fee
•	 Department of Telecommunication (DoT) has revised the annual 
license fee rate of annual gross revenue for ISPs, UASL/CMTS/Basic 
service licence category A, B, C, ILD and NLD services.
•	 Following is a tabular representation of license fee rate applicable till 31 
March	2013	and	post	31	March	2013:	
Sl. No. Type of license Annual license fee rate as a 
percentage of AGR
For the period 
from 1 July 2012 
to 31 March 2013For the year 
2013-14 and 
onwards
1 ISP
ISP – Internet telephony4
7 8
2 UASL/ CMTS/ Basic service licence 
Category A 9
Category B 8
Category C 7 8
3 ILD service licence 7 8
4 NLD service licece 7 8Supreme Court judgement cancelling telecom licenses
The SC, in a landmark judgment, cancelled 122 UASL with 2G spectrum 
letters issued on or after January 10, 2008 during the tenure of the then 
Telecom	Minister,	Mr.	A.	Raja.	This	order	came	on	a	plea	by	a	NGO,	
Centre for Public Interest Litigation (represented by advocate Mr Prashant 
Bhushan),	Common	Cause	and	distinguished	citizens.	These	licenses	
(bundled	with	spectrum)	were	“quashed”	by	the	court	after	finding	that	
their allocation was done in an “illegal” manner. According to Comptroller 
and Auditor General’s (CAG) report, there was a loss of INR 1.76-lakh crore 
to the exchequer on account of licenses being given in 2008 at 2001 prices, 
without	an	auction.	A	brief	synopsis	of	the	order	is	as	follows:
•	 The above direction shall become operative after 4 months from the 
date	of	order	viz	February	02,	2012
•	 Within 2 months from the date of order, Telecom Regulatory Authority 
of India (TRAI) shall make fresh recommendations for grant of license 
and allocation of spectrum in 2G band in all 22 service areas by auction
•	 Central Government to consider the recommendations of TRAI and 
take appropriate decision within the next 1 month
Financial Services
Investment in Indian venture capital undertakings and/or 
domestic venture capital funds by SEBI registered foreign venture 
capital investors permitted   
The RBI has permitted foreign venture capital investors (FVCIs) to invest 
in the eligible securities (equity, equity-linked instruments, debt, debt 
instruments, debentures) of an Indian venture capital undertakings (IVCU) 
or venture capital fund (VCF), and units of schemes or funds set up by a VCF, 
by way of private arrangement or by purchase from a third party subject 
to terms and conditions as stipulated in Schedule 6 of Foreign Exchange 
Management (transfer or issue of security by a person resident outside 
India), Regulations, 2000.
Additionally,	the	RBI	has	clarified	that	FVCIs	are	permitted	to	invest	in	
securities on a recognised stock exchange subject to the provisions of the 
SEBI (FVCI) Regulations, 2000.  
A.P. (DIR Series) circular no 93 dated 19 March 2012Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC64SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations 2012 
announced (PR No. 62/2012)
On	1	August	2011,	the	SEBI	issued	a	concept	paper	for	the	proposed	
introduction of SEBI (alternative investment funds) Regulations for public 
comments. Considering the need for regulating unregulated funds, ensuring 
systematic	stability,	increasing	market	efficiency	and	encouraging	formation	
of new capital and investor protection, the SEBI announced the Alternative 
Investment Funds Regulations on 2 April 2012.
The	key	features	of	the	regulations	are	as	follows:
Registration
•	 To function as an alternative investment fund (AIF), it is mandatory to 
obtain	a	certificate	of	registration	from	SEBI.
•	 For existing AIFs, registration is to be done within six months, which 
may be extended to a further six months in special cases
Categories	for	registration	are	as	follows:
Category I:  comprises AIFs which invests in start-up or early stage ventures 
or social ventures or small and medium enterprises (SMEs) or infrastructure 
or other sectors or areas which the government or regulators consider as 
socially or economically desirable and shall include venture capital funds, 
SME funds, social venture funds, infrastructure funds and other AIFs such 
as	a	venture	capital	company	or	venture	capital	fund	as	specified	in	section	
10(23FB) of the Act.
Category II:  comprises AIFs which do not fall into category I and III and 
which do not undertake leverage or borrowing other than to meet day-to-
day operational requirements and as permitted by these regulations. AIFs 
under this category include private equity funds or debt funds for which no 
specific	incentives	or	concessions	are	given	by	the	government	or	any	other	
regulator.
Category III:  comprises AIFs which employ diverse or complex trading 
strategies and may employ leverage including through investment in listed 
or unlisted derivatives. AIFs under this category includes hedge funds 
or funds which trade with a view to make short-term returns or such 
other	funds	which	are	open	ended	and	for	which	no	specific	incentives	or	
concessions are given by the government or any other regulator. 
Conditions and restrictions 
Investment in all categories of AIF would be subject to the following 
conditions:-
•	 AIF may raise funds from any investor by way of issue of units. •	 AIF shall have a corpus of not less than INR 200 million.
•	 Minimum investment by an investor in the AIF shall not be less than 10 
million INR.
•	 Manager or sponsor must have a continuing interest in the AIF of not less 
than	2.5	%	of	the	corpus	or	50	million	INR,	whichever	is	lower.	
•	 An AIF scheme cannot have more than 1000 investors. 
•	Category	I	and	II	AIFs	cannot	invest	more	than	25%	of	the	corpus	in	one	
investee-company. 
•	Category	III	AIF	cannot	invest	more	than	10%	of	the	corpus	in	one	investee	
company. 
Further	additional	conditions	have	been	specified	in	respect	of	venture	capital	
funds, SMEs, social venture funds and infrastructure funds covered by the 
categories mentioned above.
Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2011 (‘the bill’) passed by Lok 
Sabha 
The Lok Sabha (Lower House of Parliament) recently passed the Banking 
Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2011 (‘Bill’). A much awaited measure as it formed 
a	precondition	for	Reserve	Bank	of	India	(‘RBI’)	to	issue	final	guidelines	for	
licensing of new banks in the private sector. The key highlights of the Bill are as 
under:
•	 RBI will have the power to supersede the boards of banks, appoint directors 
and chairman, inspect the books of associate companies of banks.
•	 RBI to impose such conditions as it deems necessary while granting an 
approval for acquisition of 5 percent or more of paid up share capital of a 
banking company
•	 Shareholders’ voting rights increased to 26 percent from the existing 10 
percent (in case of private sector bank) and to 10 percent from the existing 
1 percent (in case of public sector banks). 
•	 The Bill contained a proposal to exempt bank mergers and acquisitions 
from the purview of Competition Commission of India (‘CCI’). The Finance 
Minister,	however,	clarified	that	the	banking	sector	is	not	outside	the	CCI’s	
purview. Thus, bank mergers and acquisitions will need to be approved by 
both RBI and CCI.
•	 Existing regulatory regime requiring RBI approval for all share transfers 
beyond 5 percent and upto 10 percent to continue
•	 Mergers and Acquisitions in banking will continue to be monitored and 
approved by the banking regulator 
Notification no. (DSM/RS/Ka) (Release ID: 91116) dated 21st December , 2012Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC65IRDA (Issuance of Capital by General Insurance Companies) 
Regulations, 2012 (draft regulation) issued
The Insurance Regulation and Development Agency (IRDA) issued draft 
regulations for issue of capital to enable non-life insurers to tap capital 
markets. 
Key	highlights	of	the	draft	regulation	are	as	follows:	
•	 Mandatory prior approval of IRDA required before General Insurance 
Companies (GIC) approaches SEBI for public issue of shares. Approval 
to be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue 
•	Approval	will	be	granted	based	on	GIC’s	financial	position,	its	capital	
structure and regulatory record 
•	 Issue of capital only to be in the form of fully paid equity shares. Any 
other form of capital to require prior IRDA approval 
•	 Additionally, while granting approval, IRDA may prescribe the 
following:	
	−The extent to which the promoters shall dilute their respective 
shareholding 
	−The maximum subscription which could be allotted to any class of 
foreign investors 
	−Minimum lock-in period for the promoters from the date of 
allotment of shares 
Issued by IRDA under exposure drafts dated 18 September, 2012
Amendments to Insurance Laws (Amendment) Bill 2008 approved 
by Cabinet
Based on the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance, the 
Cabinet has approved certain necessary amendments to the Insurance Laws 
(Amendment) Bill, 2008 which is currently pending in Rajya Sabha (upper 
house	of	Parliament).	Some	of	the	key	amendments	are	as	follows:
•	Foreign	equity	cap	to	be	kept	at	49%.	
•	 Foreign reinsurers to be permitted to open branches in India for 
reinsurance business only.
•	 Capital requirement for health insurance companies to be reduced to 
INR	50	crores.	Health	insurance	policies	to	cover	sickness	benefits	on	
account of domestic and international travel.
•	 Constitution of a separate Motor Vehicle Insurance and Compensation 
Legislation. •	 Period within which a policy can be repudiated on grounds of 
misstatement to be 3 years from the date of issue of such policy.
•	 Public sector GICs and GICs to be permitted to raise capital from the 
market	provided	Government	ownership	of	51%	maintained.
Notification by PIB: SH/SKS (Release ID: 88152) dated 4th October 2012
The Non-Banking Financial Company–Factors (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2012
Pursuant	to	the	notification	of	the	Factoring	Regulation	Act,	2011	issued	
by	the	government	in	January	2012,	a	new	category	of	NBFCs	viz.	Non-
Banking Financial Company–Factors has been introduced by the RBI along 
with	specific	directions	to	govern	this	activity.
Some	of	the	key	features	of	these	directions	are:
•	 Mandatory registration with RBI as an NBFC-Factor. 
•	Minimum	NOF	of	INR	5	crores.	
•	NBFC-Factors	to	satisfy	‘75:75	asset	income	pattern’,	i.e.	financial	assets	
in the factoring business should constitute at least 75 percent of its total 
assets and its income derived from the factoring business should not be 
less than 75 percent of its gross income.
•	 Applicability of NBFC Prudential Norms to NBFC Factors. 
•	 Existing NBFCs satisfying the prescribed asset income pattern may 
approach	RBI	along	with	certificate	of	registration	and	auditor’s	
certificate	for	change	in	classification	within	six	months	from	the	date	
of	RBI	notification.
•	 NBFC-Factors intending to deal in forex through export or import 
factoring required to make an application to the Foreign Exchange 
Department of RBI for permission to deal in forex and adhere to the 
terms and conditions prescribed.
Amendment to Non Banking Financial Company - Micro Finance 
Institutions directions
Post issue of framework for Non Banking Finance Company–Micro Finance 
Institution (NBFC-MFI), such NBFCs have been making representations to 
RBI	regarding	difficulties	in	complying	with	the	existing	RBI	framework	
for NBFC-MFIs. Considering the representations, the RBI issued certain 
amendments in the provisions related to NBFC-MFIs on the following key 
aspects:
•	 Existing NBFCs to approach the RBI immediately for a change in 
Certificate	of	Registration	(CoR).	Existing	NBFCs	to	seek	registration	Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC66by	31	October	2012	(provided	Net	Owned	Funds	(NOF)	of	INR	3	
crore	by	31	March	2013	and	NOF	of	INR	5	crore	by	31	March	2014	is	
maintained).	Failure	to	comply	with	minimum	NOF	requirements	will	
restrict	sending	to	the	MFI	sector	to	10%	of	the	total	assets.	Also,	new	
companies	should	meet	the	INR	5	crore	NOF	criteria.
•	At	least	85%	of	assets	to	be	‘qualified	assets’	originating	on	or	after	1	
July	2012.	Also,	income	generation	target	reduced	from	75	to	70%	of	
the total loans.
•	 A borrower can be the member of only one self-help group (SHG) or 
one joint liability groups (JLG) or borrow as an individual.
•	 Conditions such as annual household income, total indebtedness, 
membership of SHG or JLG, borrowing sources as well as percentage of 
qualifying assets and income-generating asset needs to be followed.
•	The	26%	cap	on	interest	prescribed	earlier	has	been	relaxed	provided	
average interest rate does not exceed the borrowing cost plus margin 
during	a	financial	year.	Individual	loans	may	exceed	the	limit	of	26%	
provided	deviation	from	mean	interest	rate	is	not	more	than	+/-	4%.
•	The	MFIs	can	approach	their	boards	to	fix	internal	limits	to	avoid	
concentration	in	specific	geographic	locations
•	 Fair practices code as issued by the RBI needs to be followed.
•	Each	MFI	needs	to	be	a	member	of	at	least	one	SRO.
•	 Primarily, the MFI is responsible for adequate monitoring of compliance 
with	the	Directions.	Lending	banks	and	SROs	also	need	to	ensure	
compliance with system practices. 
RBI/2012-2013/140 DNBS (PD) CC. No. 297/Factor/22.10.91/ 2012-13 dated 
23rd July, 2012
Guidelines for overseas investments by CICs 
The	RBI	has	issued	the	final	Core	Investment	Companies	-	Overseas	
Investment	(Reserve	Bank)	Directions	2012	(‘CIC	Outbound	Directions’).	
The	CIC	Outbound	Directions	are	in	addition	to	the	existing	directions	
prescribed by Foreign Exchange Department for overseas investment. These 
Directions are applicable to all CICs whether registered with the RBI or not.
Some	of	the	key	provisions	are	detailed	below:
Financial sector investment 
•	Overseas	investment	in	financial	sector	permitted	only	for	RBI	
registered CICs (‘CICs-ND-SI’) through prior approval of RBI. Financial 
sector	defined	to	mean	a	sector/service	regulated	by	a	financial	sector	
regulator.•	Overseas	investment	in	financial	sector	permitted	only	in	regulated	
entities abroad 
Non-financial sector investment  
•	CICs-ND-SI	permitted	to	make	overseas	investment	in	non-financial	
sector without any RBI approval subject to reporting requirements as 
prescribed. 
•	Exempted	CICs	permitted	to	make	overseas	investment	in	non-	financial	
sector without any RBI approval and without complying with the CIC 
outbound directions.
Eligibility criteria 
•	 CICs making overseas investment need to have an adjusted net worth 
ratio	of	at	least	30%	(in	the	manner	prescribed)	before	and	after	
making the overseas investment. 
•	Non-performing	asset	level	of	CICs	not	to	exceed	1%	of	net	advances.	
•	CICs	need	to	have	a	three	year	profitability	track	record	and	satisfactory	
performance during its existence.
Limits on overseas investment
•	Aggregate	overseas	investment	of	a	CIC	not	to	exceed	400%	of	its	
owned	funds	and	aggregate	overseas	investment	in	financial	sector	not	
to	exceed	200%	of	its	owned	funds.	
•	Overseas	investment	in	financial/non-financial	sector		restricted	to	
the	CICs	financial	commitment	(i.e.	contribution	by	way	of	equity	
investment,	loan	and	50%	of	guarantees	issued	to	or	on	behalf	of		
overseas	JV/WOS.	
Opening of Branches/ JV/ WOS abroad
•	 CICs not permitted to set up branches overseas. Existing branches of 
CICs need to approach RBI within 3 months for a review. 
•	Overseas	JV/WOS	(Wholly	owned	subsidiary)	of	CICs	not	to	be	shell	
companies	(i.e.	having	no	significant	assets	or	operations)	and	not	to	be	
used as vehicle for raising resources for creating assets in India for India 
operations. 
•	Parent	entity’s	liability	towards	JV/WOS	to	be	disclosed	in	the	balance	
sheet	of	JV/WOS	including	whether	it	is	equity/loan/guarantee	with	
details of nature and amount of guarantee. Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC67Opening of representative offices 
•	CICs	permitted	to	set-up	representative	offices	abroad	with	prior	
approval of RBI for the purpose of liaison work, undertaking market 
study and research but not for any activity involving outlay of funds
•	No	line	of	credit	permitted	to	be	extended	for	representative	offices
Other general conditions
•	Overseas	investments	by	CICs	not	permitted	in	prohibited	activities	as	
prescribed under FEMA.
•	 CICs permitted to issue guarantees/letter of comfort to the overseas 
subsidiary	engaged	in	non-financial	activity.
•	 CICs need to ensure that investments made abroad do not result in 
creation of complex structures. Maximum two tiers permitted in a 
structure where a non-operating holding company required offshore. 
Existing CICs having more than one non operating holding company 
need to report to RBI for a review.
•	Annual	statutory	auditor	certificate	to	be	submitted	to	RBI	by	April	30	
every year certifying compliance with CIC outbound directions.
RBI/2012-13/314 DNBS (PD) CC.No.311/03.10.001/2012-13 dated 6th December 
2012
Draft guidelines on NBFC sector based on Usha Thorat Committee 
Recommendations
Based on the recommendations made by the Usha Thorat Committee and 
subsequent feedback, the RBI issued draft guidelines for NBFC and has 
invited feedback and views on the same by 10 January, 2013. Key provisions 
proposed	are:
Entry point norms 
•	Based	on	issuance	of	CoR,	NBFCs	to	be	classified	as	registered	and	
exempted NBFCs. 
•	Pre-requisite	for	NBFC	registration	-	NOF	of	minimum	INR	2	crore	plus	
satisfaction of principal business criteria (PBC) plus assets of minimum 
INR 25 crore. 
•	PBC	to	qualify	as	an	NBFC	to	be	as	follows:
	−Financial entities having assets of minimum INR 1000 crore 
-			financial	assets	to	be	minimum	50%	of	total	assets	or	financial	
income	to	be	minimum	50%	of	total	income.	−Other	companies	not	accepting	deposits	-	Financial	assets	of	
minimum	INR	25	crore	plus	financial	assets	and	financial	income	of	
minimum	75%	respectively.		
•	PBC	for	asset	financing	companies	(AFCs)	to	be	redefined	in	alignment	
with	that	of	the	revised	PBC	for	NBFCs	(existing	60%	replaced	with	
75%).
•	 Exemption from RBI registration available for NBFCs (other than for 
deposit taking NBFCs) with - 
	−Assets below INR 25 crore whether accepting public funds or not.
	−Assets below INR 500 crore and not accepting public funds, directly 
or indirectly.
•	 Foreign owned companies to obtain CoR from RBI before commencing 
any	non-banking	financial	activity.
Transition mechanism for existing NBFCs 
•	 Non-deposit taking NBFCs  with assets below Rs. 25 crore required to 
	−approach RBI within 3 months with a road map for achieving assets 
of minimum INR 25 crore within 2 years; and
	−obtain fresh CoR within 6 months thereafter.
•	All	existing	NBFCs	to	achieve	financial	assets	of	minimum	Rs.	25	crore	
within	2	years	with	prescribed	milestones	(March	2014	-	65%	and	
March	2015	-	75%).
•	Deposit	taking	NBFCs	failing	to	achieve	75%	threshold	by	March	2015	
not permitted to accept/renew fresh deposits and need to repay existing 
deposits within the time frame as may be decided by RBI.
Multiple NBFCs in a group (part of a corporate group or floated by 
common set of promoters)
•	 Total assets to be aggregated for determination of systemically 
important NBFCs i.e. INR 100 crore and for application of prudential 
norms (to be applied to each NBFC in a group) 
•	Definition	of	‘group’	widened	to	include	-
	−group entities as per all Indian Accounting Standards, promoter-
promotee as per SEBI listed company guidelines.
	−entities with common brand name. 
	−investee	companies	in	which	equity	shareholding	is	minimum	20%.Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC68Captive	NBFCs	(having	at	least	90%	of	total	assets	as	financing	of	parent	
company’s products)
Tier	I	capital	to	be	minimum	12%	for	capital	adequacy	purposes	(existing	
Captive NBFCs to achieve within 3 years).
Government NBFCs
Required to comply with revised regulatory framework at the earliest if 
qualifying as NBFCs
Liquidity requirements
Need to maintain high quality liquid assets such that there is no liquidity gap 
in 1-30 day bucket.
Liquid assets to include cash, bank deposits available within 30 days, money 
market instruments maturing in 30 days, investment in actively traded debt 
securities	(valued	at	90%	and	carrying	at	least	an	AA	or	equivalent	rating)
Prudential norms
•	 Tier I Capital for capital adequacy purposes
	−Minimum	12%	-	For	Captive	NBFCs	and	NBFCs	having	more	than	
75%	assets	towards	lending/investment	to	sensitive	sectors	namely	
capital market, commodities and real estate.
	−Minimum	10%	-	For	all	other	NBFCs	
	−Existing NBFCs to achieve the above within 3 years
•	 Risk weights for Capital Market Exposures (‘CME’) and Commercial 
Real Estate Exposures (‘CRE’)
	−For	NBFCs	in	a	bank	group	-	same	as	specified	for	banks.
	−For other NBFCs (other than Captive NBFCs and NBFCs having 
exposure	to	sensitive	sectors)	-	raised	to	150%	for	CME	and	125%	
for CRE.
•	Asset	Classification	and	Provisioning	Norms	(including	for	standard	
assets)
	−To be made similar to that for banks and to be implemented in a 
phased	manner	as	prescribed	(One-time	adjustment	of	repayment	
schedule permitted and not to be considered as restructuring).
	−Standard	assets	provisioning	raised	from	0.25%	to	0.4%.
•	 Deposit – Taking NBFCs (including AFCs)
	−To be credit rated without which not  permitted to accept deposits 
(existing unrated NBFCs given a period of 1 year to get rated).	−Limits	for	deposit	acceptance	 reduced	from	4	times	to	2.5	times	NOF	
(existing	AFCs	to	be	provided	specific	time	period	for	compliance	
during which renewal/fresh deposit acceptance not permitted.
Corporate Governance and Disclosures
•	 Prior RBI approval required for change in control or transfer of 
shareholding (for all NBFCs)
	−In case of change in control and / or increase of shareholding of 
25%	or	more	of	paid	up	equity	capital	by	individuals	or	groups,	
directly or indirectly
	−In case of acquisitions/mergers under section 391-394 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 by or of an NBFC (before approaching the 
Courts)
	−Acquisitions in ordinary course of business by an underwriter, a 
stock broker and a merchant banker excluded from approval
CEO Appointment and related matters
•	 For NBFCs with assets of INR 1000 crore and above
	−Prior	RBI	approval	for	appointment	of	CEOs.	
	−Restriction of maximum 15 directorships for every director in an 
NBFC (public or private) i.e. similar to that prescribed under section 
275 of the Companies Act, 1956.
	−Compliance with clause 49 of SEBI’s listing agreement on corporate 
governance including induction of independent directors.
•	 NBFCs with assets of INR 100 crore and more but less than INR 1000 
crore encouraged to adopt Clause 49 principles in their governance 
practices.
Fit and proper criteria for directors
All NBFCs with assets of Rs 100 crore and above and deposit taking NBFCs 
-	To	have	a	policy	for	ascertaining	fit	and	proper	criteria	for	appointment	
of directors based on guidelines as prescribed and comply with prescribed 
periodic reporting.
Disclosures in financial statements – notes to account
•	 For all registered NBFCs - registration with other regulator(s), any 
credit ratings assigned by rating agencies and penalties, if any levied by 
any regulator. Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC69•	 For NBFCs with assets of INR 1000 crore and above (whether listed or 
not) 
	−Compliance with mandatory disclosures under Clause 49 of SEBI 
listing agreement.
	−Provision	coverage	ratio,	liquidity	ratio,	asset	liability	profile,	extent	
of	financing	of	parent	company	products,	NPAs/movement	of	NPAs,	
details of all off-balance sheet exposures, structured products issued 
as also securitisation/assignment transactions and other disclosures 
as prescribed.
	−For unlisted NBFCs - above disclosures to be made available on their 
websites.
Remuneration and compensation
•	 NBFCs with assets of INR 1000 crore and above - to mandatorily 
constitute a Remuneration Committee to decide on compensation of 
executives in accordance with guidelines (to be issued separately).
•	 NBFCs with assets below INR 1000 crore - encouraged to adopt such 
practices.
Foreign investment in NBFC Sector under the FDI scheme
The	RBI	vide	its	circulars	has	clarified	that	‘leasing	and	financing’	activities	
– one of the 18 NBFC activities for foreign investment purposes covers only 
financial	leases.	Operating	leases	do	not	fall	within	the	purview	of	NBFC	
activities and thus, foreign investment is permitted in operating leases, 
without minimum capitalisation restrictions, under the FDI scheme.
Investment by way of private arrangement in Indian venture 
capital undertakings and/or domestic venture capital funds by 
SEBI registered foreign venture capital investors permitted
•	 The RBI has permitted FVCIs to invest in the eligible securities (equity, 
equity-linked instruments, debt, debt instruments, debentures) of an 
IVCUs or VCFs, and units of schemes or funds set up by a VCF, by way 
of private arrangement or by purchase from a third party subject to 
terms and conditions as stipulated in Schedule 6 of Foreign Exchange 
Management (transfer or issue of security by a person resident outside 
India), Regulations, 2000.
•	Additionally,	the	RBI	has	clarified	that	FVCIs	are	permitted	to	invest	in	
securities on a recognised stock exchange subject to the provisions of 
the SEBI (FVCI) Regulations, 2000FII investment in ‘to-be-listed’ debt securities 
In line with the SEBI circular dated 26 November, 2010 allowing FIIs to 
invest in ‘to-be-listed’ debt  securities, the RBI has now permitted SEBI 
registered FIIs/sub-accounts of FIIs (together referred to as ‘FIIs’) to invest 
in	primary	issues	of	NCDs/	bonds	subject	to	the	following	conditions:
•	 Such NCDs/ bonds are committed to be listed within 15 days of 
investment by FIIs. 
•	 Where such NCDs/bonds issued to FIIs are not listed within 15 days of 
issue, the FII has to immediately sell the bonds/NCDs to a third party or 
the issuer.
•	 The terms of offer to the FII must contain a clause that the issuer of 
such debt securities must immediately redeem / buy back the securities 
from the FII if the debt securities are not listed within the prescribed 
time frame of 15 days.
Revision in the framework for QFI investment in equity shares and 
mutual fund schemes
Further to its earlier circular in January 2012, the SEBI revised the 
framework for QFI investments on. Some of the key changes, including 
modification	to	the	definition	of	QFI,	are	mentioned	below:
•	QFI	resident	in	a	non-signatory	country	to	IOSCO’s	Multilateral	
Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU) may also qualify as a QFI, 
provided such a country has a bilateral MMoU with the SEBI. 
•	QFI	not	be	a	person	resident	of	India.	The	definition	of	‘person’	and	
‘resident’ in a country are the same as those in the FEMA and the Act. 
Additionally, the SEBI has amended the existing QFI circular (January 
2012) as under:
•	 Investment by QFIs in the same company through both FDI and QFI 
routes	not	to	exceed	5%	of	paid-up	equity	capital	(all	classes	of	equity	
shares having separate and distinct ISIN) of the company at any point 
of time.
•	 QFIs allowed to make fresh purchases (through a single demat account) 
of eligible securities, out of sale, redemption or dividend proceeds of 
any of the eligible securities.
•	QFI	may	appoint	a	custodian	(qualified	Depository	Participant	(DP))	of	
QFI and registered as a custodian with SEBI) of securities, who would 
be obligated to perform clearing and settlement of securities on behalf 
of QFI client.Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC70•	 QFIs must invest in all eligible securities through a single non-interest 
bearing rupee account.
Circular CIR/ IMD/ FII&C/ 13/ 2012 dated June 07 , 2012
Investment by QFIs in Indian corporate debt securities
RBI has recently permitted QFIs to invest in debt securities in India on 
repatriation basis, subject to an overall limit of USD 1 billion.
Under this scheme, QFIs can invest through SEBI-registered QDPs in listed 
NCDs, listed bonds of Indian companies, listed units of mutual fund debt 
schemes and ‘to be listed’ corporate bonds. For this purpose, a QFI may open 
a single non-interest bearing rupee account for settlement of transactions 
relating to purchase and sale of eligible securities and may also open a 
demat account with a QDP. 
RBI/2012-13/134 A. P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 7 dated 16th July, 2012
Foreign investment limit for Asset Reconstruction Companies 
reviewed
The foreign investment in Asset Reconstruction Company (‘ARC’) has been 
enhanced	from	49%	to	74%	vide	Government’s	press	release	issued	recently.
The	key	changes/conditions	as	listed	in	the	Press	Release	are	as	follows:
•	Foreign	investment	limit	of	74%	in	ARC	to	be	a	combined	limit	of	FDI	
and FII. Hence, the prohibition on investment by FII in ARCs has been 
removed.
•	No	sponsor	to	hold	more	than	50%	of	the	shareholding	in	an	ARC	either	
by way of FDI or by routing through an FII.
•	Total	shareholding	of	an	individual	FII	in	an	ARC	shall	not	exceed	10%	
of the total paid-up capital.
•	 Limit of FII investment in Security Receipts (SRs) to be enhanced from 
49%	to	74%	of	each	tranche	of	scheme	of	SRs.
•	Individual	limit	of	10%	for	investment	of	a	single	FII	in	each	tranche	of	
SRs issued by ARCs has been dispensed.
•	 Investment by FIIs in SR need to be within the FII limit on corporate 
bonds prescribed from time to time and subject to the sectoral caps 
under the extant FDI regulations
•	 Foreign investment in ARCs would need to comply with the FDI policy 
in terms of entry route conditionality and sectoral caps
DSM/RS/ka (Release ID: 91117) dated 21st December 2012SEBI 
Exemptions from 100% promoter(s) holding shares in 
dematerialised form 
The	SEBI	had	earlier	mandated	that	100%	promoter(s)	holding	should	be	in	
dematerialised	form.	On	receiving	representations	from	various	companies	
on issues relating to dematerialisation of promoters holdings, the SEBI 
in consultation with stock exchanges allowed exemption in respect of the 
following	promoters	from	compliance	with	100%	promoter(s)	holding	
in dematerialised form. This circular is effective from 30 April 2012. The 
following	are	the	instances	when	exemption	would	be	considered:
•	 Promoter(s) have sold their shares in a physical mode and the same 
have not been lodged for transfer with the company.
•	 The entire or partial shareholding of promoters or the promoter group 
is under judicial deliberation before any court or tribunal.
•	 Shares cannot be converted into dematerialised form due to the death 
of any of the promoter(s).
•	Shares	allotted	to	promoter(s)	that	await	final	approval	for	listing	and	
where	such	pendency	is	less	than	30	days,	or	shares	received	on	final	
listing are pending for conversion to dematerialised form and where 
such pendency is less than 15 days.
SEBI/Cir/ISD/1/2012 dated 30 March 2012
Amendment to SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2012 
to increase the minimum investment amount under portfolio 
management scheme
To protect the interests of small and retail investors investing under the 
Portfolio Management Services (PMS) route, the SEBI has enhanced the 
minimum investment amount per investor from INR 5 lakh to INR 25 lakh. 
This has been done to limit retail investors’ exposure and accessibility to 
PMS. Additionally, portfolio managers have been debarred from holding 
unlisted securities (in addition to the existing restriction on holding listed 
securities) belonging to portfolio accounts, in their own names on behalf of 
clients. Both amendments are applicable to fresh investments by existing or 
new investors from the date of the circular.Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC71Compensation guidelines for key managerial personnel of private 
sector and foreign banks operating in India
The	RBI,	subsequent	to	the	draft	guidelines,	has	issued	the	final	guidelines	
regulating compensation payable to full-time directors, chief executive 
officers,	risk	takers	and	control	function	staff	by	private	sector	and	foreign	
banks.	According	to	these	guidelines,	from	FY	2012-13,	the	private	sector	
and foreign banks operating in India would be required to obtain a prior 
approval from the RBI to grant remuneration to full-time directors and chief 
executive	officers.	
The	highlights	of	the	guidelines	are	as	follows:
•	 Private sector banks
	−Private banks are required to adopt a comprehensive compensation 
policy covering all employees and conduct an annual review of this.
	−The board of directors of banks should constitute a remuneration 
committee of the board to oversee the framing, review and 
implementation of the compensation policy of the bank.
	−The	compensation	structure	includes	fixed	and	variable	pay,	
deferred compensation, employees stock option plan and bonus.
	−Disclosure is required to be made on remuneration in the annual 
financial	statements	under	the	prescribed	format.
•	 Foreign banks
	−Head	offices	of	foreign	banks	operating	in	India	are	to	submit	a	
declaration	to	the	RBI	confirming	compliance	with	the	financial	
stability board (FSB) principles and standards regarding the 
compensation structure for its employees in India.
	−For	foreign	banks	with	a	head	office	situated	in	a	country	that	has	
not adopted the FSB principles, the compensation guidelines of 
private banks would be applicable.
DBOD no BC. 72/29.67.001/2011-12 dated 13 January 2012
Registration of pension funds for private sector guidelines, 2012 
The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has 
recently issued guidelines for registration of pension funds in the private 
sector.	The	key	eligibility	criteria	for	an	applicant	are	as	follows:	
•	Sponsor	must	be	a	company	in	the	financial	services	sector	regulated	
by	any	of	the	financial	services	sector	regulators	in	India	(i.e.	RBI,	SEBI,	
IRDA, and PFRDA).In case the applicant is a JV company, at least one of	the	shareholders/sponsors	should	falls	under	the	financial	sector	
regulators. 
•	 Monthly AAUM should not be less than INR 8,000 crores in the 
preceding 12 months ending with the month of application and such 
AAUM should not be less than INR 2,000 crores. This criteria should be 
met by any one of the sponsors in case the application is made by a JV 
company. 
•	 Sponsor’s assets under management shall not include investments in its 
own assets, investment advisory services or any other similar activity. 
•	 Sponsors must have a positive net worth during the immediately 
preceding	five	years	with	a	net	profit	record	of	three	years	immediately	
preceding the application. 
•	Applicant	should	be	a	‘fit	and	proper’	person.	
An applicant can make an application and obtain in-principle approval from 
PFRDA,	provided	the	applicant	satisfies	the	criteria	laid	down	under	the	
guidelines. The applicant can then approach PFRDA for formal registration 
within three months from the date of such in-principle clearance. The 
registration	certificate,	once	granted,	may	be	reviewed	annually	or	within	
such	period	as	may	be	specified.
PFRDA: Change in central government investment model for the 
corporate sector
•	 Under the NPS-corporate sector model, corporate have been provided 
the option to select the central government investment model if the 
investment option is exercised by them for their employees. 
•	 In terms of the PFRDA Circular no PFRDAICIR/1/PFM/1 dated 31 
August, with effect from 1 November 2012, the private PFMs will be 
free to decide the investment management fee within the upper ceiling 
of	0.25%	per	annum	prescribed	by	the	PFRDA	at	present.
•	 Due to this differential fee offered by the PFMs from 1 November 2012, 
the new corporate-CG scheme will be introduced with effect from 
1 November 2012. The scheme will follow the central government 
investment guidelines issued from time to time. The salient features 
will	be	as	under:
	−This scheme will be offered only by public sector PFMs, who have 
obtained registration under the PFRDA (Registration of Pension 
Funds for Private Sector) Guidelines - 2012.Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
PwC72	−The system of distribution of funds among three PFMs, as at 
present, will no longer be available for corporate under the CG 
scheme and the corporate will have to choose only one PFM offering 
this scheme.
•	Existing	corporate	sector	subscribers	under	the	CG	scheme:
	−The existing three public sector PFMs (SBI, UTI and LIC) offering 
the CG scheme will introduce the corporate-CG scheme with effect 
from 1 November 2012 with units of face value of INR 10 and an 
initial Net Asset Value (NAV) of INR 10 per unit. The funds and 
assets in the existing CG scheme with respect to corporate will be 
transferred to the new scheme and proportionate units in the new 
corporate CG scheme will be allotted.
	−The existing corporate under the CG scheme are allowed a period 
of 60 days from 1 November 2012 i.e. up to 31 December 2012 to 
choose any one PFM for shifting their assets. Till such time, the 
fee chargeable to them will be as applicable to central government 
employees, whereafter charges applicable to the private sector shall 
be levied.Regulatory
FEMA
SEBICorporate Tax
Mergers and Acquisition s
Transfer Pricing
Indirect Taxes
Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Articles
SN Particulars of Articles/TL Publications Where Published Date/Month of Publication Contributor/Author Names
1 Domestic transfer pricing - A new Chapter in India’s TP Landscape Taxmann’s	International	Taxation	Magazine 1-Apr-2012 Tarun Arora and Manish Sabharwal 
2 Tax and Legal updates SICC (Swiss India Chamber of Comm) bulletin. Summer publication 2012 Mayur Desai
3 India’s Retail Trading Sector - Some Recent Developments PwC Italy newsletter 1-Apr-2012 Akash Gupt and Sahil Gupta
4 Interview	on	Cable	TV	digitization www.mxmindia.com 1-May-2012 Sahil Gupta
5 The Indian Kaliedoscope - Emerging trends in Retail PwC Thought leadership 1-Sep-2012 Goldie Dhama and Sahil Gupta
6 Overview	of	tax	framework	in	India Decoding the Indian Aerospace and Defence Sector September 2012 Kamal Abrol and Amit Singhal
7 Things	to	remember	while	filing	Tax	Returns The Economic Times 26-Jun-2012 Kuldip Kumar
8 Understanding the New Tax Form The Economic Times 18-Apr-2012 Kuldip Kumar
9 How	should	you	deal	with	Income	from	Other	Sources Mint 5-Jul-2012 Kuldip Kumar
10 What	to	watch	out	for	while	filling	up	new	ITR	forms The Financial Express 17-Apr-2012 Chander Talreja
11 Should	employed	assesses	file	income	tax	returns	at	all? Mint 14-Mar-2012 Kuldip Kumar
12 Tax deduction in line with liability Outlook	Money 14-Mar-2012 Kuldip Kumar
13 Advantage high- income group The Indian Express 14-Mar-2012 Kuldip Kumar
14 The new proposed tax slab Business World 14-Mar-2012 Kuldip Kumar
15 Steps	to	e-filing	income	tax	returns Business Standard 14-Mar-2012 Kuldip Kumar
16 Pre-budget expectations on personal taxation   Reuters 14-Mar-2012 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh
17 Budget	2012:	Benefits	to	individuals Reuters 14-Mar-2012 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh
18 Budget	2012,	new	income	tax	slabs	and	more:	A	ready	reckoner Reuters 14-Mar-2012 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh
19 Tax borne by an employer - A non monetary perk The Hindu Business Line 14-Mar-2012 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh
20 Retro Is Not The New ‘In’! The Firm-Moneycontrol.com 14-Mar-2012 K Venkatachalam
21 Service returned with reverse charge The Hindu Business Line August 2012 S Ananthanarayanan
22 How	budget	affects	your	finances The Hindu Business Line 18-Mar-2012 Kaushik Mukerjee and Ravi Jain
23 Tax challenges for foreign enterprises in India The Hindu Business Line 6-May-2012 Kaushik Mukerjee and Ravi Jain
24 To look a ‘gift’ share in the mouth The Hindu Business Line NA Chengappa Ponnappa
25 Widening the minimum tax net The Hindu Business Line 4-Aug-2012 Anand Kakarla and Archana 
Korlimarla
26 Service tax and negative list The Hindu Business Line 9-Apr-2012 Pramod Banthia
27 A broader transfer pricing code The Hindu Business Line 6-May-2012 Rakesh Mishra
28 Depreciation on goodwill The Hindu Business Line 22-Oct-2012 Madhukar Dhakappa  
and Sunaina Agarwal
29 Too wide a net for indirect transfers The Hindu Business Line 6-May-2012 S Ramanujam and Ganesh Raju
30 From McDowell to Vodafone The Hindu Business Line 12-Mar-2012 Indraneel R ChaudhuryPwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
SN Particulars of Articles/TL Publications Where Published Date/Month of Publication Contributor/Author Names
31 Asia	Pacific	Tax	Notes  PwC Hongkong Website and APTN Publication June-12 Pallavi Singhal and Vikash Baheti
32 Withholding tax provisions relating to non-residents The Hindu Business Line 1-Jul-2012 Pallavi Singhal and Vikash Dhariwal
33 Discord on software taxability The Hindu Business Line 29-Jan-2012 Pallavi Singhal and Vikash Dhariwal
34 Casting the tax net wide The Hindu Business Line 6-Apr-2012 Indraneel R Chaudhury
35 Fuzzy	logic	on	annual	maintenance	contracts The Hindu Business Line 4-Jun-2012 B. Sriram and M. Harisudhan
36 New Tax pitfalls for Multinational acquisitions and restructuring in the 
age	of	fiscal	shortfall Acquisition International Journal August-12 Garry Stone and Ajith Choradia
37 Plugging tax leakages in tough times The Hindu Business Line 27-Aug-2012 M G Ramachandran
38 A matter of substance The Hindu Business Line 1-Jul-2012 K Venkatachalam
39 Is Affordable housing a Reality now in India? Tax Indiaonline 27-Apr-2012 Anand Kakarla and Tikam Jain
40 Finance	Bill	2012	redefines	Royalty Tax Indiaonline 28-Mar-2012 Anand Kakarla and Archana 
Korlimarla
41 Widening the minimum tax net The Hindu Business Line 8-Apr-2012 Anand Kakarla and Archana 
Korlimarla
42 Taxing	foreign	investor’s	profits	on	exit The Economic Times 2-Aug-2012 Vivek Mehra
43 Tax-optimising	your	supply	chain:	the  
Franchise Model (Part 3 of the 3 series Article) - discusses the 
implementation issues of this model in selected territories including 
Argentina,	Brazil,	Germany,	France,	India,	Russia	and	US,	where	Swiss	
is the FranchisorBloomberg BNA - Tax Planning  
International  
Review (Vol. No. 39 No. 10)October-12 Sanjay Tolia, Shilpa Udeshi and 
Hitesh Chauhan
44 GAAR:	End	of	Strategic	tax	planning? Tax Indiaonline 16-Apr-2012 Vijayashree R and Rahul Sarda
45 Tax	residency	certificate:	A	must	for	claim	of	benefits	under	DTAAs Tax Indiaonline 26-Mar-2012 Vijayashree R
46 Methods of relief under tax treaties Outlook	Money 12-Jan-2012 Sundeep Agarwal and Hitesh Sharma
47 Navigating tax laws as investment travels overseas The Hindu Business Line 4-Jun-2012 Saloni S. Khandelwal
48 No	Liability	for	Service	Tax	-	But	Still	Pay	Income-tax	On	It! Petrofed April-June 2012 quarter 
editionShailesh Monani and Bhavin Sheth
49 Tax	Ramifications	to	a	Foreign	Corporation	of	using	a	service	provider	
in the Host Country – IndiaTax Management International Forum 1-Sep-2012 Shailesh Monani and Chandresh 
Bhimani
50 Article on investment banking BNA Transfer Pricing International Journal October-12 Dhaivat Anjaria, Bhavik Timbadia 
and Bhavika Desai
51 GAAR in UK - A carefully planned approach International Taxation  July 2012 Dheeraj Chaurasia and Parul Sarin
52 Vodafone - unintended consequences  International Taxation  July 2012 Dheeraj Chaurasia and Mallika 
Patney
53 GAAR-Recommendations of Parthasarathi Shome Committee Current Tax Reporter (2012) 253 CTR (Articles) 34 October-12 Sangeeta JainPwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
SN Particulars of Articles/TL Publications Where Published Date/Month of Publication Contributor/Author Names
54 Indian chapter on several unique aspects of transfer pricing BNA March-12 Rakesh Mishra, Madhawi Rathi, 
Ganesh Krishnamurthy, Abhishek 
Shukla and Umesh Rao
55 Indian chapter on Country Guide - Part II BNA May-12 Rahul K Mitra, Munjal Almoula, 
Prasad Pardiwalla, Gaurav Haldia
56 Global Procurement Companies in India – Transfer Pricing Challenges 
and the Way AheadBNA August-12 Rahul K Mitra, Amitava Sen and 
Rajneesh Verma
57 Indian chapter in the form of country responses to six rulings of Indian 
Tax Tribunals, published in Bloomberg BNA Transfer Pricing ForumBNA October-12 Sanjay Tolia, Tarun Arora, Ruhi 
Mehta and Shikha Gupta
58 CFC -Is this last resort? Business Standard 1-Feb-12 Ashutosh Chaturvedi and Dheeraj 
Chaurasia
59 Indian MnA - Taxing times ahead BNA 1-Feb-12 Praveen Bhambani and Dheeraj 
Chaurasia
60 Beneficial	ownership BNA November-12 K Venkatchalam and Dinesh Khator PwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Alerts
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
1 External Commercial Borrowings denominated in Indian Rupees - hedging facilities for non-resident lenders A.P. (Dir Series) Circular No. 27 dated 23 September 2011 02 January 2012
2 Section 10A deduction is available to a new unit even though STPI approval refers to it as expansion of 
existing unitACIT v. Symantec Software India Pvt. Ltd. [TS-765-ITAT-
2011(PUN)]03 January 2012
3 No ‘business connection’ constituted in India for sale of GSM systems and payment for embedded software 
held as not in the nature of ‘royalty’ DIT v. Ericsson Radio System AB [TS-769-HC-2011 (DEL)] 04 January 2012
4 Payment	for	back-office	finance	support	services	not	fees	for	technical	services Shell Technology India Private Limited [TS-760-AAR-2011] 04 January 2012
5 Income	received	by	a	foreign	company	for	granting	film	distribution	rights	not	‘royalty’ ADIT v. Warner Brothers Pictures Inc. [TS-787-ITAT-2011(Mum)] 05 January 2012
6 Application for advance ruling by the payer not maintainable when the same issue is pending in proceedings 
for the payee Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd., In re  [TS-761-
AAR-2011]05 January 2012
7 Comparable uncontrolled price is the most appropriate method for determining the arm’s length price of 
interest on loansAithent	Technologies	Pvt.	Ltd.	v.	ITO	[2010-TII-134-ITAT-DEL-
TP]06 January 2012
8 Amendment	/	Clarification	to	external	commercial	borrowing	guidelines	under	automatic	route A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 64 dated 5 January 2012 09 January 2012
9 Loss on sale of shares of wholly owned subsidiary deductible as business loss DCIT	v.	Colgate	Palmolive	India	Limited	(ITA	No:	5485/
Mum/2009)10 January 2012
10 Loss on sale of shares of wholly owned subsidiary deductible as business loss ACIT v. Maersk Gloal Service Centre (India) Pvt. Ltd. [2011-TII-
133-ITAT-Mum-TP]12 January 2012
11 No penalty for inadvertent reporting of income Thomas Garbarek & others, C/o. Daimler Chrysler India v. DCIT 
[TS-798-ITAT-2011 (PUN)]13 January 2012
12 No dependent agent permanent establishment where Indian agents have independent business without 
authority to conclude contractsDDIT v. Western Union Financial Services Inc. [TS-5-ITAT-2012 
(Del)]16 January 2012
13 Acceptance of forwarders’ cargo receipt in lieu of bill of lading in export transactions A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 65 dated 12 January 2012 17 January 2012
14 Qualified	Foreign	Investors	regime	for	investment	in	equity	shares  - 17 January 2012
15 Gains arising on equity share transactions carried out by a portfolio manager taxable as business income Radials	International	v.		ACIT	(ITA	No.:	1368/Del/2010) 17 January 2012
16 Restrictions on deductibility of expenses to apply even if income assessable as business income and not as 
fees for technical services under tax treatyDIT	v.	Rio	Tinto	Technical	Services	TY	Ltd.	[2012-TII-01-HC-DEL-
INTL]19 January 2012
17 Liberalisation in hedging commodity price risks on overseas exchange/markets A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 68 dated 17 January, 2012 19 January 2012
18 Landmark Supreme Court verdict in the Vodafone case S.L.P. (C) No. 26529 of 2010 21 January 2012
19 Tax	withholding	applicable	for	payment	towards	manufacture	of	goods	based	on	specification,	know-how	
and brandCIT v. Nova Nordisk Pharma India Ltd. [TS-29-HC-2012 (Kar)] 01 February 2012
20 Sharing of net revenues consistently in controlled and uncontrolled transactions held as a valid comparable 
uncontrolled priceAgility Logistics Pvt. Ltd.[2012] 136 ITD 46 (MUM.) 01 February 2012
21 Overseas	subsidiary	with	single	shareholder	is	a	separate	legal	entity	for	tax	purposes AIA Engineering Ltd v. Add CIT [TS-30-ITAT-2012 (Ahd)] 02 February 2012
22 Attribution	of	profits	to	permanent	establishment	in	India	in	addition	to	arm’s	length	remuneration	paid	to	
Indian agent upheldADIT v. MTV Asia LDC [TS-52-ITAT-2012 (Mum)] 07 February 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
23 Business support services of advisory nature under a cost contribution agreement are consultancy services 
liable to tax withholdingShell India Markets Pvt. Ltd., In re  [TS–58–AAR-2012] 07 February 2012
24 Trading by way or re-export of imported goods from an Special Economic Zone eligible for tax holiday DCIT v. Goenka Diamonds and Jewellers Ltd [TS-57-ITAT-
2012(JPR)] 08 February 2012
25 Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters as amended by the 2010 Protocol signed by 
India on 26 January 2012- 08 February 2012
26 Simplification	of	procedure	for	External	Commercial	Borrowings A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 75 dated 7 February, 2012 09 February 2012
27 Tax issues relating to assignment of keyman insurance policy to a keyman In the case of three assesses namely, Escorts Heart Institute & 
Research Centre Ltd, Rajan Nanda, Naresh Trehan [TS-809-
HC-2011 (DEL)]09 February 2012
28 IT	support	services	provided	by	foreign	company	using	hardware	in	India	taxable	as	business	profits	 AREVA T&D India Ltd. In re [TS-81-AAR-2012] 20 February 2012
29 Liberalisation in procedures relating to export and import Source:	A.P.	(DIR	Series)	Circular	No.81	and	82	dated	21	
February 201223 February 2012
30 Write off of urban advances by a bank is available without any limit Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd. v. CIT [TS-91-SC-2012] 24 February 2012
31 Court order sanctioning a scheme of amalgamation or demerger is an instrument and conveyance liable to 
stamp dutyEmami Biotech Ltd. and others v. State of West Bengal [Company 
Application No. 777 of 2011]27 February 2012
32 Competition Commission of India amends Combination Regulations - 29 February 2012
33 Ruling on characterisation and reward for selling activity and other transfer pricing matters Mastek Ltd. v. ACIT [2012] 21 taxmann.com 173 (AHD.) 01 March 2012
34 Furnishing	of	annual	statement	to	tax	department	in	relation	to	Liaison	Offices	of	non-residents CBDT	Notification	No.	5/2012	dated	6	February,	2012 01 March 2012
35 Negative net worth to be added to sale consideration for determining capital gains on slump sale DCIT v. Summit Securities Limited [TS-140-ITAT-2012 (Mum)] 12 March 2012
36 No	tax	withholding	on	remittance	by	Indian	head	office	to	foreign	branch;	Tax	holiday	available	on	sales	
made	by	Indian	head	office	to	foreign	branchSemantic Space Technologies Ltd, v. DCIT,[TS-144-ITAT-
2012(HYD)]14 March 2012
37 Report of the Standing Committee on Finance on DTC 2010 – Analysis of key recommendations Standing Committee on Finance (the Committee or SCF) 15 March 2012
38 PwC Analysis publication on the Union Budget 2012 India Union Budget 2012 16 March 2012
39 Buy-back of shares by wholly-owned subsidiary taxable as capital gains RST,  In re [AAR. No. 1067 of 2011] 20 March 2012
40 Key amendments in TP Regulations by the Union Budget 2012 Finance Bill 2012 20 March 2012
41 Tax holiday available to a developer involved in mere development of infrastructure facility  GVPR	Engineers	Ltd.	Hyd.	v.	ACIT	[TS-143-ITAT-2012(HYD)] 21 March 2012
42 Income of a foreign university from distance learning course is not treated as royalty Hughes Escort Communications Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-158-ITAT-
2012(DEL)]22 March 2012
43 Secondment agreement gives rise to a service PE and withholding tax despite no economic employment 
relationshipCentrica	India	Offshore	Private	Ltd	In.	re.[TS-163-AAR-2012] 26 March 2012
44 Tax reassessment invalid where the assessee has made requisite disclosures in the tax return Indivest	Pte	Ltd.	v.	ADIT	[2012-TS-166-BOM(HC)] 27 March 2012
45 ‘Looking at’ the nature of transaction, consortium bidding and executing a turnkey project is taxable as 
association of persons, the contract cannot be dissected for tax purposesLinde AG, Linde Engineering Division v.DCIT [TS-170-AAR-2012] 27 March 2012
46 Tax Holiday under section 10A available post slump sale as change in ownership is not to be construed as 
reconstructionCIT	v.	Sonata	Software	Ltd.	[TS-164-HC-2012(BOM)] 28 March 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
47 Power sector reforms- SEZ guidelines revised 1.	Vide	Notification	No	P.6/3/2006-SEZ	dated	21	March,	2012				  
 
2.	Notification	No.P.6/3/2006-SEZ.1	dated	27	February,	200928 March 2012
48 Overseas	direct	investment	by	an	Indian	party–	rationalisation  A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 96 dated 28 March, 2012 30 March 2012
49 Liberalisation in case of overseas direct investment by resident individuals A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 97 dated 28 March, 2012 30 March 2012
50 India Exchange Control - Liberalisation A.P. (Dir Series) Circular No. 98, 99 and 100 dated 30 March 
201203 April 2012
51 Key	requirements	of	new	tax	return	forms	for	financial	year	2011-12 CBDT	Notification	No.	S.O.	626	(E)	dated	28	March	2012	for	tax	
year 2011-2012 04 April 2012
52 Payment towards dredging operations does not constitute royalty and no withholding tax applicable DDIT v. Dharti Dredging and Infrastructure Ltd. [2012-TII-22-
ITAT-HYD]05 April 2012
53 Business and commercial rights acquired on slump sale are eligible for tax depreciation Areva T & D India Ltd. v. CIT [TS-189-HC-2012(DEL)] 05 April 2012
54 Gains on sale of Compulsory Convertible Debentures by a Mauritian entity re-characterised as ‘interest’ Z , In re  [AAR No. 1048 of 2011] 12 April 2012
55 High Court’s decision on royalty discussing criteria for allowability and taxpayer’s commercial prudence CIT v. EKL Appliances Ltd [TS-206-HC-2012(Del)] 12 April 2012
56 Transfer of shares or other interests pursuant to a family arrangement is not a transfer and hence not liable 
to capital gains taxCIT v. R Nagaraja Rao [TS-222-HC-2012(KAR)] 13 April 2012
57 Transfer of business undertaking under a Court approved scheme taxable as slump sale and hence liable to 
capital gain taxSREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd., [TS-237-HC-2012(DEL)] 20 April 2012
58 Taxability of income in the hands of a non-resident not a relevant consideration for treating a resident to be 
an agent of a non-residentADIT v.Jet Airways (India) Pvt. Ltd. [2012] 19 taxmann.com 37 
(Mum)23 April 2012
59 Benefit	granted	to	a	charitable	institution	cannot	be	automatically	extended	to	the	substantially	amended	
objects of the institutionThe Board of Control for Cricket in India v. ACIT [TS-251-
ITAT-2012]23 April 2012
60 Deeming provisions under section 50C applicable only on capital assets and not on sale of land held as stock-
in-tradeCIT	v.	Kan	Construction	and	Colonizers	Pvt.	Ltd.	[TS-252-HC-
2012(ALL)]24 April 2012
61 Liberalistaion in External Commercial Borrowing guidelines A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 111 and 112 dated April 20, 2012 
and Circular No. 113 dated 24 April 201226 April 2012
62 No withholding tax on reimbursement of salary costs of personnel under a secondment agreement ITO	v.PQR	India	[TS-258-ITAT-2012(Bang)] 27 April 2012
63 Deduction	under	section	10A	of	the	Act	is	to	be	allowed	at	business	profits	level CIT v. Black and Veatch Consulting Pvt. Ltd. [TS-260-HC-
2012(BOM)]27 April 2012
64 Revenue sharing under a franchisee agreement not liable to withholding tax CIT v. Career Launcher India Ltd. [TS-257-HC-2012 (Del)] 30 April 2012
65 Itemised sale of assets, in substance, held to be  a slump sale taxable under section 50-B Mahindra	Engineering	&	Chemical	Products	Ltd	v.ITO	[TS-253-
ITAI-2012 (Mum)]02 May 2012
66 Commission for reinsurance of risk not taxable as fees for technical services DIT v. International reinsurance broker [TS-271-HC-2012(Del)] 04 May 2012
67 RPM (not TNMM) appropriate for distribution; losses are on account of business strategy; & no motive to 
shift	profits	as	margins	of	associated	enterprises	are	reasonableITO	v.	L’oreal	India	Pvt.	Ltd.	[TS-293-ITAT-2012	(Mum)] 04 May 2012
68 Additional depreciation cannot be denied to the assessee merely on the ground that electricity is not an 
article or thingN.T.P.C. Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-291-ITAT-2012 (DEL)] 09 May 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
69 “Ordinary	profits”	v.	“Arm’s	length	price”	for	tax	holiday	units Visual Graphics Computing Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-
274-ITAT-2012 (Chny)]11 May 2012
70 Subscription fees received for social media monitoring services for market intelligence taxable as royalty ThoughtBuzz	Pvt.	Ltd.,	In	re	[TS-300-AAR-2012	(Del)] 11 May 2012
71 Recent	amendments	notified	by	the	Reserve	Bank	of	India - 15 May 2012
72 Only	“controlled”	transactions	of	tested	party	and	only	“similar”	“uncontrolled”	transactions	of	comparables	
to be consideredMicrosoft	Corporation,	Inc.	v.	Office	of	Tax	and	Revenue	;	Case	
No.	2010-OTR-00012	(1	May	2012)16 May 2012
73 Mean of advertising spend of companies in same industry cannot be ALP for advertising expenditure to be 
incurred by taxpayer, and is also not correct application of TNMMACIT v. Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. [TS-326-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 21 May 2012
74 Benefit	of	indexation	available	on	redemption	of	redeemable	preference	shares CIT v. Enam Securities Pvt Ltd [TS-324-HC-2012 (Bom)] 21 May 2012
75 Payment made for airborne geophysical survey services is not FTS CIT v. De Beers India Minerals Pvt. Ltd. [TS-312-HC-2012 (Kar)] 23 May 2012
76 Revenue cannot question the business/commercial expediency behind transactions; it can only ascertain 
whether the transaction is at arm’s lengthEricsson India Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-319-ITAT-2012 (DeL)] 24 May 2012
77 Internal guidelines and updated FAQs released on the Indian provident fund and pension scheme applicable 
to international workers- 29 May 2012
78 No	PE	created	by	liaison	office	in	absence	of	any	violation	noted	by	RBI Metal	One	Corporation	v.	DDIT	[TS-356-ITAT-2012(DEL)] 31 May 2012
79 Payment to foreign company for R&D cost allocation taxable under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the India-
Germany Tax Treaty“A” Systems [AAR No. P of 2010] 31 May 2012
80 Advertisement collection agent of foreign telecasting company does not create a PE; arm’s length 
remuneration to agents extinguishes further attribution to PEDDIT (IT) v. B4U International Holdings Ltd. [TS-358-ITAT-2012 
(Mum)]01 June 2012
81 Reduction	in	share	of	partners	on	reconstitution	of	firm	is	not	relinquishment	of	right	and	hence,	not	a	
taxable transferCIT v. P N Panjawani [TS-351-HC-2012(Kar)] 01 June 2012
82 Inspection and boroscoping activity carried out in India not taxable; Turbine overhaul services taxable as it 
grants non-exclusive royalty free licenseSolar Turbines International Company, In re [TS-367-AAR-2012] 04 June 2012
83 Consideration received for providing technical personnel taxable as fees for included services under India-
US tax treatyAvion Systems Inc v. DDIT [TS-370-ITAT-2012 (Mumbai)] 05 June 2012
84 Weighted	deduction	available	for	R&D	expenditure	incurred	outside	the	approved	facility;	Profit	of	tax	
holiday	unit	computed	by	considering	‘actual’	sale	price	and	costs	attributable	thereof,	including	HO	costs	
allocationCadila Healthcare Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-354-ITAT-2012 (Ahd)] 08 June 2012
85 Indian subsidiary undertaking group’s international express business in India constitutes a permanent 
establishmentAramex International Logistics Pvt Ltd, In re [TS-388-AAR-2012] 12 June 2012
86 Disallowance under section 14A not applicable to income of SEZ units eligible for tax holiday deductions Meditap Specialities Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-393-ITAT-2012 (Mum)] 13 June 2012
87 Consortium creates an association of person, and income from it as a whole, taxable in India Alstom Transport SA, In re [TS-387-AAR-2012] 13 June 2012
88 Shipping	magazines	rates	accepted	as	CUP	for	charter	hire	payment	for	vessels	after	suitable	comparability	
adjustmentsReliance Industries Ltd v. ACIT [TS-368-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 14 June 2012
89 OECD	releases	discussion	draft	for	revision	of	Chapter	VI	(Intangibles)	of	OECD	TP	Guidelines - 14 June 2012
90 OECD	releases	Discussion	Draft	on	Safe	Harbours - 14 June 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
91 More	profit	from	related	than	unrelated	parties	does	not	itself	make	it	‘more	than	ordinary’	(Electricity	
Board	rates	also	used	as	support);	profit	comparison	to	be	done	for	‘individual’	related	partiesOPG	Energy	Pvt.	Ltd.	v	DCIT,	Chennai	[TS-382-ITAT-2012	
(CHYN)]19 June 2012
92 Same income cannot be taxed twice R	Natarajan	v..	ACIT	[TS-386-ITAT-2012(CHNY)] 19 June 2012
93 Supplementary	Memorandum	on	official	amendments	moved	in	the	Finance	Bill,	2012 - 21 June 2012
94 Relaxation of external commercial borrowing norms – Manufacturing and infrastructure sector borrowers - 27 June 2012
95 Domestic law prevails if no provision exists for a particular head of income under the tax treaty DCIT v.  TVS Electronics Ltd. [TS-421-ITAT-2012 (Chny)] 29 June 2012
96 Income from domestic related party cannot be adjusted by applying transfer pricing provisions under section 
40A(2) of the ActDurga	Rice	&	Gen	Mills	v.	AO	[TS-446-ITAT-2012(Chandi)] 29 June 2012
97 Draft guidelines regarding implementation of General Anti Avoidance Rules in terms of section 101 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961http://www.pib.nic.in 02 July 2012
98 Splitting of a project into a set of contracts for offshore and onshore components not be disregarded Dongfang Electric Corporation v. DDIT [TS-434-ITAT-2012 (Kol)] 03 July 2012
99 Purchasing shares at a very high price and selling them at a lower price to a group concern within a short 
span of time - not a genuine transaction, capital loss disallowedPremier	Synthetic	industries	v	ITO		[TS-444-HC-2012	(Mad)] 05 July 2012
100 Sale of shares by the promoters not sale of investment but sale of entire business and thus taxable as 
business incomeSumeet Taneja v. ACIT [TS-412-ITAT-2012 (Chandi)] 05 July 2012
101 Definition	of	excluded	employee	expanded	for	special	provisions	applicable	to	international	workers	under	
the Indian social security regulationsNotification	F.	No.	S-35025/09/2011/Ss-II	dated	24	May,	2012	
-		Ministry	of	Labour	and	Employment.	[Source	:	http://www.
epfindia.com/Circulars/Y2012-13/Coord_EPFSch_IW_3927.pdf]06 July 2012
102 Income from Container Freight Stationbe eligible for deduction under section 80-IA(4) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1961 All Cargo Global Logistics Ltd v. DCIT [TS-345-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 09 July 2012
103 RBI re-opens foreign currency convertible bonds buyback window RBI’s AP(DIR Series) Circular No. 1 dated 5 July 2012 09 July 2012
104 Time charter hire charges not taxable as ‘royalty’ but subject to deemed taxability under section 172 of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961Poompuhar	Shipping	Corporation	Ltd.	v.	ADIT[2012]	53	SOT	
451 (Chennai)09 July 2012
105 Surplus arising on amalgamation by adopting purchase method of accounting not taxable as business 
income under section 28(iv) of the Income-tax Act, 1961Spencer and company Ltd. v. ACIT [2012] 21 taxmann.com 459 
(Chennai)11 July 2012
106 Transfer of shares to parent company at book value cannot be treated as a sham Euro RSCG Advertising Pvt. Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-496-ITAT-2012 
(Mum)]18 July 2012
107 No	capital	gains	tax	on	transfer	of	shares	held	in	Indian	companies	:	Supreme	Court	decision	in	the	case	of	
Azadi	Bachao	Andolan	upheldDynamic India Fund I, In re[TS-513-AAR-2012] 20 July 2012
108 Bad debts not a factor relevant to determination of arm’s length price for royalty CIT v. CA Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd.[2012] 252 CTR 
164	(BOM.)20 July 2012
109 Tax planning within the legal framework of the law is permissible AVM Capital Services Pvt. Ltd. [TS-512-HC-2012 (Mum)] 23 July 2012
110 Tax	holiday	continues	post	merger,	benefit	attached	to	the	undertaking	and	not	to	ownership Renuga Textiles Mills Ltd. v.CIT [TS-517-HC-2012 (Mad.)] 27 July 2012
111 ESOP	cost	accounted	in	books	as	per	SEBI	guidelines	held	to	be	staff	welfare	expenditure	and	eligible	for	
deductionCIT v. PVP Ventures Ltd [TS-514-HC-2012(Mad)] & CIT v. Spray 
Engineering Device Ltd. [TS-516-ITAT-2012(Chand)]27 July 2012
112 Reimbursement of salary and other administration costs under secondment agreement not Fees for 
Technical Services and not liable to tax withholdingAbbey Business Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-532-ITAT-
2012(Bang)]31 July 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
113 Consideration on sale of shares chargeable to tax in the year of transfer, notwithstanding that a part of the 
consideration is deferredAjay	Guliya	v.	ACIT	[TS-520-HC-2012	(Del)]	&	ITO	v.	Indira	R	
Shete [TS-562-ITAT-2012 (Mum)]03 August 2012
114 Penalty	not	leviable	where	assessee	provides	a	bona	fide	explanation	or	where	assessee	made	error	under	a	
bona	fide	beliefEmilio	Ruiz	Berdejo,	C/o	Tetra	Pak	India	Ltd	v	DCIT	[TS-547-
ITAT-2012 (PUN)]06 August 2012
115 Taxability of salary received in India for overseas services and ‘tax year’ to be followed under a tax treaty 
when tax years of countries are differentBholanath	Pal	v.	ITO	[2012]	52	SOT	369	(BANG.) 07 August 2012
116 Special Leave Petition not permitted directly before the Supreme Court against the ruling of the Authority 
for Advance Tax RulingsColumbia Sport swear Company v. DIT [TS-549-SC-2012] 07 August 2012
117 HO’s	allocation	of	R&D	costs	fully	deductible,	section	44C	restriction	inapplicable John Wyeth & Brother Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-567-ITAT-2012 (Mum)] 08 August 2012
118 Capital gains on direct and indirect transfer of shares of Indian company by Mauritius tax resident not 
taxable in India under India-Mauritius DTAA; In case of corporate owners, legal ownership of shares 
outweighs	beneficial	ownership	for	determining	taxability	of	capital	gainsMoody’s Analytics Inc, USA., In re [2012] 24 taxmann.com 41 
(AAR)08 August 2012
119 Tax	paid	by	employer	on	behalf	of	employees	qualifies	as	‘non-monetary’	perquisite	–	exempt	from	tax DIT (IT) v. Sedco Forex International Drilling Inc & others [TS-
603-HC-2012 (UTT)]14 August 2012
120 Cancellation of registration of a cricket association trust upheld as its activities were for commercial puposes 
and were not charitable in natureMumbai Cricket Association v. DIT(Exemption), Mumbai [TS-
590-ITAT-2012- (Mum)]16 August 2012
121 AAR doubts genuineness of inter-corporate gifts, calls it a strange transaction Orient	Green	Power	Pte	Ltd.	In	re	[TS-608-AAR-2012] 17 August 2012
122 Transfer	pricing,	minimum	alternate	tax	and	filing	of	return	applicable	to	capital	gains	earned	by	foreign	
company eligible for exemption under tax treatyCastleton Investment Ltd, In re [TS-607-AAR-2012] 21 August 2012
123 For	attribution	of	profits	to	PE,	AO	cannot	simply	apply	Rule	10	without	rejecting	TP	study	for	proper	
reasonsHyundai Rotem Company v. Asst. DIT [TS-612-ITAT-2012 (DEL)] 23 August 2012
124 Formation	conditions	under	section	10A	of	the	Income-tax	Act	to	be	tested	in	the	first	year	of	claim CIT	v.	Western	Outdoor	Interactive	Pvt.	Ltd.	[TS-614-HC-
2012(Bom)]23 August 2012
125 Consideration for repairs and refurbishment of damaged turbines paid to non-residents not ‘fees for 
technical service’ADIT v. BHEL-GE-Gas Turbine Servicing Pvt. Ltd. [TS-576-
ITAT-2012 (Hyd.)]23 August 2012
126 Vesting of shares of an Indian company pursuant to an overseas upstream merger not liable to capital 
gains tax - exemption under section 47(via) is not available due to inability to satisfy one of the prescribed 
conditionsCredit Suisse (International) Holding AG, In re[TS-626-
AAR-2012]27 August 2012
127 Capital gains earned by an Indian resident on sale of shares of a Sri Lankan entity not taxable in India Apollo Hospital Enterprises Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-609-ITAT-
2012(CHNY)]27 August 2012
128 Goodwill arising on amalgamation is an ‘asset’ eligible for depreciation CIT v.Smifs Securities Ltd. [TS-639-SC-2012] 28 August 2012
129 Application to Authority for Advance Rulings does not lie where a tax return is submitted before making the 
applicationNetApp	BV,	Sin	Oceanic	Shipping	ASA.	In	re.,	[TS-619-HC-2012	
(Del) ]28 August 2012
130 Advance	Pricing	Agreement	Rules	notified - 31 August 2012
131 Expert Committee Report on General Anti Avoidance Rules - 03 September 2012
132 Applicability of capital gains tax, transfer pricing provisions and exemption under section 47(iv) on buyback 
of shares of an Indian companyArmstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd., In 
re[TS-628-AAR-2012]03 September 2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
133 Payment for satellite up-linking and telecasting programmes not royalty or fees for technical services Channel Guide India Ltd. v. ACIT [TS-662-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 04 September 2012
134 Adjustment	of	excess	contributions	made	to	pension	fund	of	Indian	employees	holding	certificate	of	
coverage and deputed to a country with which India has a social security agreement is allowedhttp://www.epfindia.com/Circulars/Y2012-13/IWU_16266.pdf 06 September 2012
135 AAR	rejects	application	as	the	share	arrangement	flouted	the	SEBI	guidelines	and	impaired	public	interest	
even though no tax avoidance motive existedMahindra-BT Investment Co. (Mauritius) Ltd. , In re  [2012] 24 
taxmann.com 296 (AAR)07 September 2012
136 Managing Director’s remuneration should be allocated between tax holiday units; implications under 
domestic transfer pricing provision need to be consideredNahar Spinning Mills Ltd. v. JCIT [TS-622-ITAT-2012(Chandi)] 07 September 2012
137 Payment for acquisition of capacity in undersea cables taxable as royalty Dishnet Wireless Ltd., In re [2012]  24 taxman.com 298 (AAR) 07 September 2012
138 PwC Transfer Pricing Resource - Answering queries - Indian Advance Pricing Agreement Scheme - 07 September 2012
139 Installation services inextricably linked to supply of equipment not taxable under the India-Canada tax 
treaty though can be taxed under the ActDCIT v. Dodsal Pvt. Ltd. [TS-675-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 10 September 2012
140 Goodwill is an intangible asset eligible for depreciation Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. v. CIT [TS-682-HC-2012(Bom)] 11 September 2012
141 Gift of shares by shareholders to the company not a sham transaction and the subsequent sale results in 
capital gainsCIT v. Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd. [TS-656-
HC-2012 (KAR)]12 September 2012
142 Section 10A deduction available before setting-off domestic tariff area unit’s current year as well as brought 
forward lossCIT v. TEI Technologies Pvt. Ltd. [TS-665-HC-2012(Del)] 12 September 2012
143 PwC India Regulatory News Alert - Liberalisation of External Commercial Borrowing and Trade Credit Policy - 13 September 2012
144 Sale of ‘pledged’ shares at a loss to a group company to offset gains is not a ‘colourable transaction’ ACIT v. Biraj Investment Pvt. Ltd. [2012] 24 Taxmann.com 273 
(Guj)13 September 2012
145 Retrospective amendment in domestic law cannot be read into tax treaty - payment for supply of software 
embedded in hardware not taxable as ‘royalty’ even after retrospective amendmentDIT	v.	Nokia	Networks	OY	[TS-700-HC-2012	(Del)] 14 September 2012
146 Determination of taxable income of a life insurance company in accordance with section 44 of, read with 
Rule 2 in the First Schedule to, the ActICICI Prudential Insurance Co. Ltd. v. ACIT (ITA No. 6854, 6855, 
6856 and 6059 of 2010)18 September 2012
147 CUP upheld to be the most appropriate method for benchmarking broking transactions; arithmetic mean 
and not weighted average to be considered for determining ALP; adjustments for differences in volume and 
functions need to be considered RBS	Equities	(India)	Ltd,	(Formerly	known	as	ABN	AMRO	Asia	
Equities	(India)	Ltd.	v.	ACIT		[I.T.A.	No.	3077/Mum/2009]	for	AY	
2003-04	and	[I.T.A.	No.	1236/Mum/2010]	for	AY	2005-0618 September 2012
148 Relief granted by High Court on errors by revenue while processing withholding tax credit and in granting 
tax refundCourt on its own motion v. CIT [TS-677-HC-2012(Del)] 18 September 2012
149 Maintenance of separate books of accounts for tax holiday unit not a pre-requisite to avail deduction under 
section 80HH/80I of the Act CIT	v.	Bongaigaon	Refinery	and	Petrochemical	Ltd.	[TS-695-
SC-2012]20 September 2012
150 Arm’s length price for sourcing services – cost based remuneration model adjudged most appropriate for 
limited risk procurement support service providerGAP International Sourcing (India) Pvt. Ltd v. ACIT [ITA Nos. 
5147/Del/2011(AY	2006-07)	and	228/Del/2012	(AY	2007-08)]20 September 2012
151 Extraordinary	profits	does	not	necessarily	imply	that	business	transacted	was	‘arranged’	so	as	to	result	in	
high	profitsCIT	v.	Schmetz	India	Pvt.	Ltd.	[TS-702-HC-2012	(Bom)] 01	October	2012
152 Delhi High Court lays down law on re-opening of income-tax assessments under section 147 of the Income-
tax Act, 1961CIT v. Usha International Ltd. [TS-259-HC-2012(DEL)] 03	October	2012
153 India chapter of UN’s draft Practical Manual on TP for Developing Countries - 11	October	2012PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No Issue Ruling / Notification etc. Date
154 Expert Committee Report on Retrospective Amendments Relating to Indirect Transfer - 17	October	2012
155 Unabsorbed depreciation allowed to be set off against long-term capital gains Suresh Industries Pvt Ltd v. ACIT [TS-771-ITAT-2012 (Mum)] 17	October	2012
156 Gift of shares by a foreign company prior to June 2010 treated as capital receipt, exempted under section 
47(iii) of the ActDP World Pvt Ltd v. DCIT [TS-767-ITAT-2012(Mum)] 17	October	2012
157 International workers from social security agreement countries allowed to withdraw provident fund early  Notification	No.	F.No.S-35025/09/2011-SS-II	dated	5	October,	
2012 of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Government of 
India19	October	2012
158 Indian chapter on “Country responses to six rulings of Indian Tax Tribunals” - 05 November 2012
159 Draft Tax Accounting Standards issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes - 19 November 2012
160 Updated FAQs released on Indian provident fund and pension scheme applicable to International workers - 23 November 2012
161 External commercial borrowing for 2G spectrum allocation - 27 November 2012
162 Various factors to be evaluated while pricing guarantee commission - universal application of a particular 
rate rejected, and instead, internal CUP acceptedEverest Kanto Cylinder Ltd. v. DCIT [TS-714-ITAT-2012(Mum)-
TP]27 November 2012
163 Deduction under section 10B is to be allowed before set-off of brought forward loss and unabsorbed 
depreciationACIT	v.	Charon	Tec	P.	Ltd	[TS-841-ITAT-2012(CHNY)] 04 December 2012
164 CBDT	notifies	valuation	methodology	for	computing	FMV	under	section	56(2)(viib)	of	the	Act	 - 07 December 2012
165 Income from seismic data procurement and processing services relating to oil exploration taxable under the 
presumptive schemeOHM	Ltd.	In	re	[2011-TII-10-ARA-INTL] 12 December 2012
166 Recent	guidelines	issued	by	Employees’	Provident	Fund	Organisation	on	the	definition	of	basic	wages	and	
conducting inquiry - 12 December 2012
167 Social Security Agreement signed between India and Japan - 13 December 2012
Sr. No. Issue Date
1 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	January	2012 31 January 2012
2 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	February	2012 13 March 2012
3 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	March	2012 09 April 2012
4 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	April	2012 21 May 2012
5 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	May	2012 06 June 2012
6 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	June	2012 03 August 2012
7 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	July	2012 06 September 2012
8 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	August	2012 30 September 2012
9 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	September	2012 31	October	2012
10 PwC	Newsletter	:	India	Spectrum	-	October	2012 02 November 2012India SpectrumPwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
SSAs signed but not notified:
Hungary	–	On	3	February	2010
Czech	Republic	–	On	8	June	2010
Norway	–	On	29	October	2010
Finland	–	On	12	June	2012
Canada	–	On	6	November	2012
Japan	–	On	16	November	2012
Sweden	–	On	26	November	2012Sr. No. Country Effective Date
1 Belgium 1 September 2009
2 Germany 1	October	2009
3 Switzerland 29 January 2011
4 Luxembourg 1 June 2011
5 France 1 July 2011
6 Denmark 1 May 2011
7 Korea 1 November 2011
8 Netherlands 1 December 2011 Social Security AgreementsSr. No. Country Date of notification
1 Bermuda Notification	No.	5/2011	[F.	No.	503/2/2009-FTD-I],	dated	24	January	2011
2 Bahamas Notification	No.	25/2011	[F.	No.	503/6/2009-FTD-I],	dated	13	May	2011
3 Isle of Man Notification	No.	26/2011	[F.	No.	503/01/2008	-	FTD-I],	dated	13	May	2011
4 British Virgin Islands Notification	No.	54/2011	[F.	No.	503/10/2009-FTD-I],	dated	3	October	2011
5 Cayman Islands Notification	No.61/2011[F.	No.503/03/2009-FTD-I]/S.O.	2902(E),	dated	27	December	2011
6 Jersey Notification	No.	26/2012	[F.	No.	503/6/2008-FTD-I]/S.O.	1541(E),	dated	10	July	2012
7 Guernsey Notification	No.	30/2012	[F.	No.	503/1/2009-FTD-I]/SO	1782(E),	dated	9	August	2012
8 Liberia Notification	No.	32/20012-FT&TR-II	[F.	No.	503/02/2010-FT&TR-II]/SO	1877(E),	dated	17	August	2012List of Tax Information Exchange Agreements (TIEAs)DTAAsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No. Country Date of notification
1. Armenia GSR No. 800(E)/8-12-2004
2. Australia GSR No. 60(E)/22-1-1992
3. Austria GSR No. 682(E)/20-9-2001
4. Bangladesh GSR No. 758(E)/8-9-92
5. Belarus GSR No. 392(E)/17-7-98
6. Belgium GSR	No.	323(E)/6-6-75	corrected	by	416(E)/18-7-75;	supplemented	by	321(E)/2-3-88;	632(E)/31-10-97;	SO	54(E)/19-1-2001
7. Botswana S.O.1494(E)/18.6.2008
8. Brazil GSR No. 381(E)/31-3-92
9. Bulgaria GSR No. 205(E)/9-5-96
10. Canada GSR No. 1108 (E)/25-9-86 amended by 635(E)/24-6-92; Circular No. 638/28-10-92; 28(E)/15-1-98
11. China GSR No. 331(E)/5-4-95; 574(E)/4-8-95
12. Cyprus GSR No. 805(E)/26-12-95
13. Czech	Republic GSR No. 811 (E)/8-12-99
14. Czechoslovakia GSR No. 526 (E)/25-5-87 corrected by 659(E)/ 24-7-90
15. Denmark GSR No. 853(E)/25-9-89
16. Egypt (U.A.R.) GSR No. 2363/30-9-69; 
17. Federal Republic of Germany GSR No. 1090/ 13-9-60 supplemented by F. No. 504/2-9-72 and 680(E)/26-8-85 amended by 609(E)/30-6-87
18. Finland GSR No. 786(E)/20-11-84 amended by 495(E)/13-8-98
19. France GSR	No.	260/18-2-1970	corrected	by	394/17-3-71	replaced	by	681(E)/	7-9-94;	amended	by	SO	650(E)/10-7-2000,	
S.O.2106(E)/12.8.2009
20. Germany Democratic Republic (GDR East German) GSR No. 107(E)/2-3-90 applicable up to 31-12-90 (Circular No. 639/8-9-93)
21. Georgia S.O.34(E)	dated	6.1.2012
22. Greece GSR No. 394 dated 17-3-67
23. Hungary GSR No. 282(E)/13-3-87 corrected by 623(E)/9-7-90; GSR No. 197(E)/ 31-3-2005
24. Iceland GSR No.241(E)/5.2.2008
25. Indonesia GSR No. 77(E)/4-2-88 corrected by 540(E)/3-5-88
26. Ireland GSR No. 105(E)/20-2-2002 and addendum No. 212(E)/ 19-3-2002
27. Israel GSR No. 256(E)/26-6-96
28. Italy GSR No. 608(E)/8-4-86 corrected by 346(E)/31-3-87
29. Italy (revised) GSR No. 189(E)/25-4-96
30. Japan GSR	No.	101(E)/1-3-90,	S.O.1136(E)/28.6.2006
31. Jordan (Hashemite Kingdom) GSR No. 810(E)/8-12-99
32. Kazakstan GSR No. 633(E)/31-10-97
33. Kenya GSR No. 665(E)/20-8-85Double Taxation Avoidance AgreementsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No. Country Date of notification
34. Kuwait GSR No.2001(E)/28.11.2007
35. Kyrgyz	Republic GSR No. 75(E)/7-2-2001
36. Libyan Arab Jamahiriya GSR No. 484(E)/1-7-82
37. Luxembourg  No. 78/12-10-2009
38. Malaysia GSR No. 167(E)/1-4-77; GSR No. 667(E)/12-10-2004
39. Malta GSR No. 761(E)/22-11-95
49. Mauritius GSR No. 920(E)/6-12-83 corrected by 816(E)/18-12-84
41. Mongolia SO	No.	635(E)/16-9-96
42 Montenegro No.96(E)/7.1.2009
43. Morocco GSR No. 245(E)/15-3-2000
44. Myanmar S.O.1518(E)/18.6.2009
45. Namibia GSR No. 196(E)/8-3-99, 
46. Nepal GSR No. 1146(E)/5-12-88
47. Netherlands GSR	No.	382(E)/27-3-89;	modified	by	693(E)/30-8-99
48. New Zealand GSR No. 314(E)/27-3-87 corrected by 477(E)/21-4-88
49. Norway GSR No. 756(E)/9-9-87 corrected by 1024(E)/24-10-88
50. Oman	(Sultanate	of) GSR No. 563(E)/23-9-97
51. Pakistan GSR	No.	28/10-12-1947,	28-12-47	Not	operative	from	A.Y.	1972-73
52. Philippines GSR No. 173(E)/2-4-96
53. Poland GSR No. 72(E)/12-2-90
54. Portuguese Republic GSR No. 542(E)/16-6-2000
55. State of Qatar GSR No. 96(E)/8-2-2000 
56. Romania GSR No. 80(E)/8-2-88
57. Russian Federation GSR No. 507(E)/21-8-98
58. SAARC No.3/11/10.1.2011
59. Serbia S.O.97(E)/7.1.2009
60. South Africa GSR No.198(E)/21.4.1998
61. Singapore GSR	No.	22(E)/18-1-82	corrected	by	371(E)/8-9-92	replaced	by	610(E)/8-8-94	S.O.2031(E)	dated	1.9.2011
62. Slovenia GSR No. 344(E)/31.5.2005 (2005)
63. Spain GSR No. 356(E)/21-4-95
64. South Korea GSR	No.	1111(E)/26-9-86	modified	by	986(E)/	20-12-90;	198(E)/21-4-98
65. Sri Lanka (Ceylon) GSR No. 342(E)/19-4-83 corrected by 788(E)/20-11-84
66. Sudan GSR No. 723(E)/1-11-2004
67. Sweden GSR No. 38(E)/27-3-89; 705(E)/17-12-97Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Sr. No. Country Date of notification
68. Switzerland GSR No. 357(E)/21-4-95; 74(E)/7.2.2001
69. Swiss Federation S.O,2093(E)	dated	27.12.2011
70. Syria (Syrian Arab Republic) GSR No. 508(E)/25-6-85; 884(E)/30.3.2009
71. Taipei S.O.2040(E)	dated	2.9.2011
72. Tajikistan GSR No.1758(E)/16.7.2009
73. Tanzania GSR No. 559(E)/16-10-81 corrected by 451(E)/8-6-82
74. Thailand GSR No. 915(E)/27-6-86 corrected by 478(E)
75. Trinidad & Tobago GSR No. 720(E)/26-10-99
76. Turkey GSR No. 74(E)/3-2-97
77. Turkmenistan GSR No. 567(E)/25-9-97
78. U. A. E. GSR No. 710(E)/18-11-93; No.2001(E)/28.11.2007
79. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland GSR No. 612(E)/23-11-81; corrected by GSR 772(E)/24-12-82; 91(E)/11-2-94
80. United Mexican States S.O.2846(E)/26.11.2010
81. United States of America GSR No. 990(E)/20-12-90 corrected by 342(E)/12-7-91
82. United State of Soviet Russia GSR No. 812(E)/4-9-89 amended by 952(E)/30-12-92; 507(E)/21-8-98
83. Uganda GSR No. 666(E)/12-10-2004
84. Ukraine GSR No. 24(E)/11-1-2002
85. Uzbekistan SO	No.	790(E)/13-11-96
86. Vietnam GSR No. 369(E)/28-4-95
87. Zambia GSR No. 39(E)/18-1-84
Sr. No. Country Notification
1 Afghanistan GSR 514(E), dated 30.09.1975
2 Ethiopia GSR	8(E),	dated	04.01.1978	as	corrected	by	Notification	No.	GSR	159(E),	dated	02.03.1978
3 Iran GSR 284(E), dated 28.05.1973
4 Lebanon Nos. GSR 1552 and 1553, dated 28.06.1969
5 Maldives SO	34(E),	dated	10.01.2011	by	Notification	No.	3/2011
6 Pakistan GSR 792(E), dated 29.08.1989
7 Peoples	Democratic	Republic	of	Yemen GSR 857(E), dated 12.08.1988
8 SAARC Countries SO	34(E),	dated	10.01.2011	by	Notification	No.	3/2011List of Limited Tax TreatiesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
Glossary
AAR Authority for advance rulings
AD Authorised Dealer
ADR American Depository Receipts
AE Associated enterprise
AIF Alternate Investment Fund
ALP Arm’s length price
AOP Association of persons
ARC Asset Reconstruction Company
AY Assessment year
BO Branch	Office
CAG Comptroller and Auditor General
CBEC Central Board of Excise & Customs
CENVAT Central value added tax
CESTAT Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal
CIC Core Investment Companies
CIT(A) Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals)
CME Capital Market Exposure
CoR Certificate	of	Registration
CRE Commercial Real Estate Exposure
CUP Comparable uncontrolled price
DIPP Department of Policy and Promotion
DGCA Director General for Civil Aviation
DGP Director General of Police
DoT Department of Telecommunication
DP Depository Participant
DRP Dispute Resolution Panel
ECB External Commercial Borrowings
FCCB Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds
FDI Foreign Direct Investment
FEMA Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999
FII Foreign institutional investor
FMV Fair market value
FOB free-on-board
FTS Fees for technical servicesFVCI Foreign Venture Capital Investor
FY Financial year
GAAR General Anti-abuse rule
GIC General Insurance Companies
GDR Global Depository Receipt
HC High Court
HFC Housing Finance Company
HO Head	office
ICDR Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements 
regulations 
IVCU Indian Venture Capital Undertakings
LO Liaison	office
LLP Limited Liability Partnership
MAM Most appropriate method
MBRT Multi Brand Retail Trading
MoU Memorandum of Understanding
MSME Micro Small and Medium Enterprises
MMoU Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding
NBFC Non-Banking Financial Companies
NHB National Housing Bank
NR Non-resident
NOF Net	Owned	Fund
PE Permanent establishment
PLI Profit	level	indicator
PFRDA Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority
PMS Portfolio Management Services
PO Project	office
QFI Qualified	Institutional	Investor
RBI The Reserve Bank of India
RPM Resale price method
SAD Special additional duty
SAT Securities appellate tribunal
SAST Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover 
RegulationsSC Supreme Court
SEBI The Securities Exchange Board of India
SIA Secretariat for Industrial Assistance
SLP Special leave petition
SPV Special Purpose Vehicle
STP Software technology park
TED Terminal excise duty
The Act The Income-tax Act, 1961
The Rules The Income tax Rules, 1962
The tax treaty Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement
The Tribunal The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal
TNMM Transaction net margin method
TO Tax	officer
TP Transfer pricing
TPO Transfer	pricing	officer
TRC Tax	residency	certificate
TRAI Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
VAT Value added tax
VCF Venture Capital Fund
WOS Wholly owned subsidiaryArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
NotesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
NotesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home
About PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a 
network	of	firms	in	158	countries	with	more	than	180,000	people	who	are	committed	to	
delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC	India	refers	to	the	network	of	PwC	firms	in	India,	having	offices	in:	Ahmedabad,	
Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more 
information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC	refers	to	PwC	India	and	may	sometimes	refer	to	the	PwC	network.	Each	member	firm	
is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You	can	connect	with	us	on:	
    facebook.com/PwCIndia 
				twitter.com/PwC_IN
   linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
         youtube.com/pwc
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not 
represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are 
advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 287 January 2013 Tax Glimpses.indd  
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
