Title: Raising the bar: A benchmarking study of organisational structures in manufacturing companies
Date Published: 2013-10-15 00:53:57-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_benchmarking-study-of-organisational-structures-in-manufacturing-companies.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Raising the bar
A benchmarking study of organisational 
structures in manufacturing companies
www.pwc.in
September 2013
Introduction  p2/ Participant demographics p5/ About the Indian 
manufacturing sector p7/ Business focus and structural challenges 
p9/ Structure benchmark analysis p12/ Benchmark of structural 
characteristics p17 Structure and attrition p19/ Conclusion p20
2 PwCIntroduction01
Of strategy and structure
It is often said that the success of an 
organisation achieving its goals largely depends on whether its internal structure is geared towards its strategy. Processes, technology, people and culture are sine qua non for predicting the success of the company. 
The right people with the appropriate 
responsibilities affirm the achievements of any organisation. Since the opening-up of the Indian economy, the manufacturing sector has seen iterative shifts in the way it is organised and delivers to the marketplace.Reorganising an organisation’s structure in order to exploit the advantages of geography and establishing an 
organisation-level strategy has played 
a key role in aiding the achievement of 
organisational objectives. 
Our report reiterates through its findings 
the importance of marrying organisational 
structure with strategy, for sustained 
growth and effectiveness.
Eighty per cent of companies reported that they 
were organised either by function or by product division (with function within each division).
Most companies had four or five reporting 
levels. In manufacturing companies, the management kept a tight rein over manpower.
While a majority of the participants indicated that 
the structure had the right decision-making spread, 31% reported that the decision rights were not appropriately located within the structure.Fifty per cent of  organisations reported that 
functions were further organised by sub-functions, while 25% reported that within a function, the work was organised by the product division.Structure type within an organisation
Structure 
type within a function
Number of 
reporting levels
Decision 
making•	Most of the surveyed companies had a functional structure with four to five reporting levels. 
•	There was scope for improvement with decision rights within the structure.
•	Participants felt that structural effectiveness can be improved by having appropriate and well- defined decision rights across the structure.Snapshots
Raising the bar           3Fifty per cent of the polled companies were not 
entirely confident of an alignment of the structure to the strategy.
The main barrier to strategy implementation 
reported by 85% of the companies was that employees often lacked the skills necessary to carry out their responsibilities.
Fifty-eight per cent of companies mentioned that 
organisational communication was weak.Twenty-five per cent of the companies were 
unsure whether their structures facilitated effective channels of information flow to decision-makers within the structure.Structure type within an organisation
Structure 
type within a function
Number of 
reporting levels
Decision 
makingApart from decision rights, organisations indicated that they were not completely  confident of the alignment of their structure to the organisational strategy, possibly because of the following reasons:
•	Inadequate 
information flow 
•	Lack of desired level of skill  
•	Lack of clarity on  strategy, structure and roles
Organisation structures are fundamental to translating 
business strategy into action
Effective structures can be defined on the basis of certain parameters
Roles and 
responsibilities at all levelStructure
Roles and
 responsibilitie s
Job design
Skillsand
behavioursMeasures 
and rewards Work group designDecision
 rights
Authority levels and accountabilitiesReporting relationships, levels and span of control
Defining the required skill sets and behavioursDefining how units or teams will work together, encompassing communication and cultural issues
Measuring the performance of people, groups and departmentsQualifications, experience or skills requirements and key responsibilities 
4 PwCOrganisations need to gradually navigate their way towards adopting structures that best 
meet their business requirements
Bureaucracy within the 
senior management team
Matrix organisation Project organisationWhat is the optimum 
structure and how  
to navigate?Rigid bureaucracy ? ?
??Bureaucracy within project 
teams and task forces
Source: Morgan, G. ImaginationStructures supporting the business model are 
critical to marketplace success
Most companies predominantly reported features across either or both these structures
Bureaucracy within the senior 
management team
Bureaucracy within project teams 
and task forces•	While	the	appropriateness	of		a	structure	
depends	on	many	factors,	in	a	dynamic	business	environment,	it	is	imperative	that	the	structure	enables	innovation	and	decision-making	at	a	much	higher	speed	than	ever	before.
•	This	in	turn	requires	that	the	structure,	people	and	performance	be	aligned	with	each	other.	
•	The	structure	of	project	teams	and	task	forces	depicted	in	the	graphical	representation,	facilitates	a	more	innovative	and	collaborative	working	style,	but	may	be	less	efficient	when	compared	to	the	structure	of	a	senior	management	team	driving	ownership	and	delivery	of	processes.
Raising the bar           5Participant demographics02
Distribution by sub-industry
Size of companies (revenue crore INR)Mining, iron and steelPaper
Cement
ChemicalOil and gas
Elec and electronics
Auto and auto ancillary
Machinery and engg
10000 crore INR and above
5000-10000 crore INR
2500-5000 crore INR 
1000-2500 crore INR
500-1000 crore INR
250-500 crore INR
Less than 250
6 PwCSize of companies (full-time employees)
Position of the organisation
A single business headquartered in India
An SBU of a group of organisation
An organisation in a holding company10000 and above
5000-10000 
2500-5000 
1000-2500 
500-1000 
250-500 
Less than 250
Raising the bar           7
Achieving a balanced and inclusive macroeconomic growth is vital for India 
in order to emerge as a stable global economic powerhouse. The role of  the manufacturing sector in providing the necessary balance and inclusive character to India’s macroeconomic growth is undisputed. Manufacturing is increasingly becoming a knowledge and IT intensive sector today. Players within the sector have developed capabilities helping them build highly unique core competencies in order to define their own growth stories. It must also be stated that growth and diversification in the Indian manufacturing sector is not a result of any policy initiative but because of the conditions on the ground that global players are using to their advantage.
Driven by a robust pick in domestic orders and strengthening of international 
demand, India’s manufacturing sector registered moderate growth in February 2013. The HSBC India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), a measure of factory production, stood at 54.2 in February 2013, up from 53.2 in the previous month, indicating an improvement in the overall health of the sector.
As the sector evolves, it will be imperative for players to maximise the value 
associated with their investments made across strategic priorities by building a set of distinctive capabilities for themselves. Skill-building will have to be the core ingredient of any recipe, in order to hone the competitiveness of players. The second ingredient being innovation.  
Organisations will need to find ways to define and develop capabilities as they take 
calculated risks and innovate along their growth trajectories.About the Indian 
manufacturing sector 03
8 PwCPartnering to create responsive relationships
The Indian manufacturing environment is influenced in a big way by various factors. 
Given	the	business	
environment	and	challenges	that	are	unique	to	the	sector,	the	HR	function	will	have	to	relook	at	its	role	as	it	moves	away	from	a		‘reacting’	to	a	‘responsive’	partnership	role.
Source: HSBC Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for Manufacturing CompaniesReact: To act after an event has occurred
Respond: To anticipate and act before an 
event occursFractional increase in productionSharp fall in the PMI
Accumulation of pre and post production inventories
Power cuts and poor vendor performance Fractional increase in labour force
Human resource implications
HR enablers for effective organisation structures
Imperatives for Indian HR leader sPowering the 
growth agenda
Facilitating a cultural shift 
Securing the leadership pipelin e Championing operational  
efficienciesManaging the environment
Raising the bar           9Organic growth with a predominant focus on product development is the key focus 
for manufacturing companies.
Consistent	with	the	current	conditions,	companies	predominantly	want	to	gain	a	strong	foothold	in	their	home	ground	before	venturing	out.Focus areas for growthBusinesses can build its focus by aligning strategy with structureBusiness focus and structural 
challenges 04
Organic growth in existing
domestic markets
New product and service 
development
Organic growth in 
exisiting foreign marketsNew M&A, joint ventures 
and strategic alliances
New operations in
foreign markets
10 PwCHowever, they must first address the barriers to strategy implementation
What are the barriers to strategy implementation in your organisation?
Is your structure aligned to strategy?
81%
56%
48%
11%
4% About half the companies polled were not entirely confident of the alignment of the 
structure to the strategy.
Gaps	in	the	alignment	of	strategy	to	structure	have	been	reported	to	be	due	to	the	lack	of	information	flow	and	lack	decision	rights	at	the	right	positions	and	right	levels.Is your structure aligned to strategy?
Employees sometimes lack the skills to
clearly carry out the responsibilities
The organisational communication
between levels and functions is weak
Projects and teams lose sight of the
strategy while purs uing their goals
The organisational budgets and plans
are not linked to the strategy
Employees are not
convinced of the strategyDoes not support and
is not aligned
Very low support 
and alignment
Supports and is
partially aligned
Supports and is
fully aligned
Raising the bar           11
•	Availability	of	desired	talent	tops	
the	list	as	a	predominant	barrier
•	Cross-functional	communication	and	lack	of	relevant	cascade	of	goals	are	other	barriers	that	have	been	cited
A	strong	leadership	team,	who	effectively	communicates	the	vision,	strategy,	structure	(roles	and	responsibilities)	and	performance		long	with		robust	hiring		and	development	mechanisms	will	clear	much	of	the	barriers	to	strategy	implementation.
Sixty-five per cent of companies were unsure about the information flow, but however leaned on to the side of optimism.A third of the companies polled  were uncertain of the efficacy of the existing distribution of decision rights with individuals across the organisation.
Lack	of	a	clear	information	flow	is	indicative	of	a	dire	need	for	a	more	facilitative	organisational	structure,	leading	to	critical	information	gaps.Lack	of	clarity	in	decision	rights	poses	a	key	barrier	to	strategy	implementation.		Structured	hierarchies	with	ready	access	to	information	for	decision	making	is	key	to	the	working	of	this	sector.Does your current structure support the right information flow to the people making the decisions?Are decision rights appropriately distributed within the structure?
12%
65%12%6%6%
Definitely yes
Probably yes
May be
Probably not
Definitely notThe quality of business outcomes hinges upon the quality of 
decisions taken  
Not at all
Yes, in some 
of the functions
Yes, in most 
of the functions
Yes, across 
the organization
12 PwCIntegrating cornerstones of the structure is critical for  a competitive 
advantage
Integrating cornerstones of the structure is critical for a competitive advantage.
Organisational  
structuresFunctional  
grouping
Effective 
communication 
Dynamic  
response tim eGoal 
achievement  •	Structures	in	the	manufacturing	
sector	are	typically	defined	along	different	production	lines.
•	All	survey	respondents	were	of	the	opinion	that	structures	designed	along	production	lines	ensured		the	following:
•	Functional	specialisation
•	Real-time	communication
•	Response	generation	through	
standard	operating	procedures
•	Hierarchical	decision-making
Structure benchmark analysis 05
Raising the bar           13
Robust structures bring operational efficiencies and ensure 
profitable growth…
•	Functional	or	product	divisional	
structures	were	found	to	be	the	most	common	way	of	grouping	employees	in	the	manufacturing	sector.
•	This	is	because	they	ensured	economies	of	scale.	
•	Within		the	product	divisional	structures,	organisations	grouped	work	by	function.Traditionally, functional or product-divisional organisations are  hierarchical in nature, with some form of line management.  Such a structure  makes room for the following: 
• Allows for economies of scale, in-depth 
skill development or specialisation
• Involves high coordination and a fairly high degree of centralisation in decision making
• Works best with stable markets, narrow product lines, and well-understood customer requirementsWhat kind of an organisational structure has your organisation adopted?
Market divisional
Geographic divisional
FunctionalProcess
Matrix
Product divisional
14 PwC … as they embed key organisational functions for an enhanced 
product delivery...
Predominantly present 
functions 
Seventy per cent and 
above companies polled the following functions  as being present or         partially outsourcedScarcely present functions 
Less than 30% of the 
companies polled the following functions as being present or partially outsourced:Moderately prevalent functions 
Thirty to seventy per cent  
of companies polled the following functions as being present or partially outsourced:
Companies combine functions to suit their context. 

Raising the bar           15Support organisational decision-making
The operating environment of the business or industry largely determines the extent of 
centralisation in decision making.
Promotions/media 80%
Brand and media 80%
Legal 78%
Public relations 77%
IT 75%
Customer service centres and  
call centres66%
Innovation centre/ centre of 
excellence66%
Technical service 62%
Research and development 60%
Brand and advertising 60%
Sales 66%
Maintenance 53%
Sales and marketing 50%
Finance and admin 50%
QA, QT 45%
Marketing 45%
Customer service and CRM 42%
HR and admin 41%
Finance 40%
Admin 40%Technical audit 60%
Engineering 53%
Marketing 45%
Finance and accounts 45%
Production 42%
HR and admin 41%
Procurement 40%
Logistics and supply chain 40%
Planning 38%
Security 37%Top 10 centralised functions
Top 10 decentralised functionsTop 10 partially centralised functions
Most	functions	that	were	centralised	were	the	support	functions	indicating	that	organisations	desire	to	have		common	support	processes	for	financial	efficiency	and	common	services.
Functions	that	were	decentralised	were	adopted		in	order	to	meet	the	requirements	of		proximity	to	the	functions’	customers	that	were	geographically	or	divisionally	structured.Functions	that	were	partially	
centralised	were	adopted	in	order	to	meet	the	requirements	of		proximity	to	the	functions’	customers	to	provide	localised	service	with		a	strong	back-	end	centralised	team.
16 PwCOperational efficiencies may also be built by outsourcing of 
functions
A glimpse of the outsourced sub-functions amongst the survey respondents.
•	Fabrication	
•	Loading	or	unloading
•	Part	production	
•	Engineering	design	
•	Test	certifications	
•	Low-value	drawing	jobs
•	Medical	
•	Payroll
•	House-keeping	
•	Time	office	
•	Catering	or	canteen	
•	Security	and	gardening•	Front-line	sales	teams	
•	Retail	sales	
•	Field	operations	
•	Sales	agents	on	
outsourced	rolls
•	IT	services	
•	Network	and	hardware
•	Maintenance	
•	Application	development	
•	SAP	supportProduction
Sales and marketingHR and administration
 IT
Outsourcing, in manufacturing  is normally resorted to with the aim of the following:
•	Reducing and controlling operating costs
•	Compensating  for the dearth of or 
unavailability of internal resources
Raising the bar           17Reporting levels within organisations impact the line of sight 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Percentage of 
companies that have one level of reporting Percentage of  companies that have three levels of reporting Percentage of companies that have  two levels of reporting Percentage of  companies that have four levels  of reporting Benchmark of structural 
characteristics 06
Finance and legal
ITCustomer services
Sales and marketingHR and admin
SupportBranding and promotion
Procurement and logistics
Production
18 PwC
Almost	all	functions	showed	an	even	distribution	
between	two,	three	and	four		reporting	levels	below	the	head	of	the	organisation	(the	CEO)	that	is,	including	the	level	of	the	CEO,	the	most	prevalent	number	of	levels	were	three,	four	or	five.
Organisations	having	two	or	less	reporting	levels	need	to	evaluate	if	their	structure	is	efficient	and	not	overburdening	its		employees,	while	those	with	more	than	five	levels	of	reporting	may	have	to	evaluate	the	redundancy	in	levels,	which	may	be	causing	duplication	of	work,	bureaucracy	and	delay	in	decision-making.
Raising the bar           19
•	There	was	no	definitive	cor-relation	
between	the	type	of		organisation	structures	and	the	levels	of	attrition	within	organisations.
•	However,	the	general	trend	of	attrition		is	seen	to	hover	around		the	eight	per	cent	mark.Thirty-eight per cent of companies reported an attrition of 12% and above, with the general trend of attrition being 8% and above. Structure and attrition are mutually exclusive of each otherStructure and attrition 07
12% and above
8-10%
2-4%10-12%
4-6%6-8%
0-2%
0%
20 PwC
Conclusion 08
Organisation structure is a fundamental area that 
can be leveraged as a competitive advantage by aligning it with the strategy.
Structure with appropriate decision-making 
spread promotes a healthy organisation.
Companies can become structurally more efficient 
by centralising or decentralising appropriate functions or sub-functions.Structures are not just organisation charts. They 
must consider multiple elements such as work groups, roles, responsibilities, decision rights and support key organisational processes. 
Raising the bar           21For the purpose of this report, functions have been broadly grouped 
under related super-functions to aid in effective analysis
Production
Production planningQuality assuranceTestingQA and QTMaintenancePlanning and engineering
Research and development
Innovation centre or centre 
of excellenceBusiness development
Marketing, salesSales and marketing
IT and networksTechnical servicesAudit, customer service, 
CRM, customer service centres and call centres
Finance 
Accounts
Finance and Accounts 
Finance and AdminLegalhuman resources, admin, HR& 
admin, facilities, security
Employee and health safetyProduction
SupportSales and marketing
Information technologyCustomer Services
Finance and legalHR and adminAppendix
22 PwCReporting levels and bands
Grades reporting into the same role 
have been taken as common level

Raising the bar           23About PwC 
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create 
the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in 
India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes 
refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
  youtube.com/pwcAbout People and change
With a pan-India network, we assist clients in 
improving the performance of all aspects of their human resource function such as performance management system, organisational design, job evaluation and banding, rewards, competencies, vision and values, culture, employee engagement, change, talent management and development and function diagnostics. We have worked extensively with clients across different sectors, industries and borders. We also  possess deep understanding of the country’s business environment.
Contacts
Padmaja Alagnandan
P&C, Executive DirectorMobile: +91 9886724704Email: padmaja.alagnandan@in.pwc.com
Gangadhar Mutathi 
Managing ConsultantMobile: +91 9820054146Email: gangadhar.mutathi@in.pwc.com
Trevor Mark Fernandes 
Senior ConsultantMobile: +91 8879974040Email: trevor.fernandes@in.pwc.com
www.pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been 
obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without 
notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course 
of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of 
the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India having Corporate Identity 
Number or CIN : U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
AK 38 - July 2013 Raising the bar.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
