Title: pwc_msme
Date Published: 2013-03-28 14:59:50+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_msme.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Financing for MSMEs
The eastside story
www.pwc.com/india

2 CII - PwC  
The Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) sector in India is essential to 
achieving the targeted growth rate of our nation. This sector nurtures budding 
entrepreneurs and incubates innovation at its most rudimentary level. A growth 
in the MSME sector not only ensures industrialisation in backward areas, but also 
indicates a more equitable Gini coefficient. In the last five-year plan, this sector 
demonstrated an average growth of 12%, raising the share of the manufacturing 
sector in GDP to 16%. With the country moving towards a more inclusive growth 
agenda, a robust MSME sector can accelerate the growth rate, as they do not 
necessitate huge investments while simultaneously acting as ancillary units to larger 
industries. Hence, for the growth of the manufacturing sector in the country and 
specifically in the eastern region, there is a need to focus on the MSME sector.
Albeit the sector has shown impressive potential, it also faces a number of challenges 
to its growth story. MSMEs suffer the high cost of credit which does not reach them 
on time. There is inadequate capital infusion compounded by insufficient data on 
credit requirement. 
To address such issues, various central and state government schemes have been 
rolled out supported by government bodies, banks and financial institutions to 
infuse funds in this sector. Central government bodies such as the National Small 
Industries Corporation which assists small units by forwarding requisite machinery, 
play an important role. The Small Industries Development Agency is a unique single-
window service for SSI units. The Reserve Bank of India Rural Planning and Credit 
Department acts to refinance nationalised banks and financial institutions in the 
industry sector. The credit guarantee scheme i.e. CGTMSE facilitates collateral free 
credit and merit based lending. Schemes like TUF (Technology Upgradation Fund) 
provide technological inputs to the beneficiary units. 
 This study attempts to document the various schemes and new financing methods 
available for MSMEs and provide them with a roadmap for optimal use. The report 
delineates the pivotal role of the credit rating agencies in assessing and establishing 
the authenticity of firms who seek financial support. It also highlights alternative 
financing options like venture capital, factoring and supply chain financing as a 
route to access capital from bank and non bank sources. The innovative platform 
provided by the recently introduced SME Exchange, that promises to give the SMEs 
a much needed access to low cost equity capital,  has also been analysed.
This CII-PwC report focuses on financing solutions for MSMEs in east India and 
provides a roadmap for MSMEs to overcome liquidity issues.Foreword
4 CII - PwC  MSMEs and their financing
Overview
The MSME sector in India is incredibly heterogeneous in 
terms of size of the enterprises, variety of products and 
services produced and levels of technology employed. As 
per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development 
Act of 2006, enterprises with the capital investment (plant, 
machinery and equipment) levels within 10 crore INR (for 
services worth 5 crore INR) qualify as MSMEs.  
The MSME sector contributes in a significant way to the 
growth of the Indian economy with a vast network of over 
32 million units, creating employment of about 70 million, 
manufacturing more than 6000 products, contributing 
about 45% to manufacturing output and about 40% of 
exports, directly and indirectly. 
It is an acknowledged fact that the MSME sector can help 
realise the target of the proposed National Manufacturing 
Policy of raising the share of the manufacturing sector 
in GDP from 16% at present to 25% by the end of 2022. 
However, this sector has faced certain impediments to 
growth, owing to some historical factors discussed below.
Challenges
Despite showing a robust growth rate of over 10% over 
the last 5 years, the MSME sector is beset with operational 
problems due to size and nature of business. In 2010, the 
Prime Minister of India appointed a task force set up under 
the chairmanship of the Principal Secretary, to consider 
various issues raised by MSME associations, discuss with the 
stakeholders and chalk out an action agenda. The key  issues 
identified by the task force, and subsequently taken up by 
the Planning Commission in the 12th plan are as follows:
Financing related
• Non-availability of adequate and timely credit;  
• High cost of credit;
• Collateral requirements;
• Limited access to equity capital.Legal and tax related
• Multiplicity and procedural complexity of 
labour laws;
• No mechanism for quick revival of viable sick 
units and speedy shutdown of unviable ones;
• Issues relating to taxation, both direct and 
indirect, and procedures thereof.
Operations related
• Problems in supply to government departments 
and agencies; 
• Cost efficient procurement of raw materials;
• Problems of storage, designing, packaging and 
product display.Infrastructure and technology related 
• Lack of access to global markets;
• Inadequate infrastructure;
• Lack of access to modern technologies;
• Lack of skilled manpower in manufacturing, 
services, marketing, etc.
Various action points were included in the Task Force’s 
recommendations, but the financing problems still persist. 
MSME owners generally have limited access to credit. This 
forces them to borrow from unregulated lending markets or from their own dealers and they end up paying much higher 
interests. Not only does this lead to overpricing of products, 
but also limits the MSME owners’ ability to add value, 
upgrade technology, quality and adopt modern management 
techniques. Thus availability of credit at affordable cost is 
critical for Indian SMEs.
Financing of MSMEs
MSMEs require timely and adequate capital infusion 
through term loans and working capital loans, particularly 
during the early and growth stages. Historically the MSMEs 
have relied on following sources for financing their needs:
• Retained earnings, funding through sale of assets
• Ancestral capital, personal savings, loans from relatives, 
loans from unregulated market
• Institutional financing from scheduled commercial banks
• Venture capital funds/ seed funds
Among the formal financial institutions, commercial banks 
constitute the largest source of financial assistance for the 
MSME sector at about 87% as of 31st March 2011. The 
outstanding MSE credit by SCBs recorded a strong growth of 
34% in FY 2011 on a strong base of 3,62,291 crore INR as of 
31st  March 2010.  
The traditional and emerging options for financing 
MSMEs in the eastern states of West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, 
Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, MSMEs have been discussed in 
the subsequent section.
Financing for MSMEs              5MSME financing in eastern India
Traditional financing options
The number of new MSMEs has been consistently increasing 
across the nation. Financial support can be attributed as a 
reason for this. This has been possible through various debt 
instruments, limited equity capital and a slew of government 
schemes. However, the picture is less rosy in the eastern 
region of India. To address this, many schemes for the 
development of MSMEs have been launched by the central 
and state governments. Many central and state institutes 
provide varied assistance for the growth of MSMEs in 
eastern India.
Financial support from public sector banks
Public sector banks have been pioneers in providing 
financial assistance to several MSMEs which can approach 
the banks for loans under various schemes. The government 
of India has shown strong commitment to double the credit 
Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
National Small Industries 
Corporation (NSIC)Financial and marketing assistance to the small scale unit supplying requisite machinery on hire 
purchase and leasehold basis
Small Industries Development 
Agency (SIDA)Single window service for SSI units
Credit Linked Capital Subsidy 
Scheme (CLCSS) (by various 
banks and institutes  refer to 
appendix A.2)Facilitates technology upgradation of micro and small enterprises. The scheme provides 15% capital 
subsidy on institutional finance availed by them for induction of well-established and improved 
technology in approved subsector products. The maximum limit of loan for calculation of capital 
subsidy under the scheme is 100 lakh INR with a maximum subsidy of 15 lakh INR.
PMEGP Training Programme Beneficiaries can set up micro enterprises by availing of margin money subsidy of 25% (35% for 
special categories) of the project cost in rural areas. The maximum cost of the projects assisted under 
PMEGP is 25 lakh INR in the manufacturing sector and 10 lakh INR in the service sector.
Small Industry Development 
Bank of India (SIDBI) (Eastern 
Regional Office)Promotion, financing and development of the small scale sector, and co-ordination of the functions 
of the institutions engaged in the promotion and financing or developing industry in the small scale 
sector.
SIDBI also refinances institutions such as state financial corporations (SFCs), state industrial 
development corporations (SIDCs), and commercial banks against loans granted to the small-scale 
sector. SIDBI also acts as financer for small-scale projects directly on a selective basis.
Products and servies offered by SIDBI may be broadly  classified:
Institutional: Focuses on refinance schemes, like Mahila Udyam Nidhi, finance to small transport 
operators, technology upgradation fund for textile units, loans for acquisition of ISO certification, self-
employment loan for ex-servicemen, single window finance for short term credit, all of them operated 
through SFCs or SIDCs or primary lending institutions or Banks or other microfinance institutions, 
depending upon the category of loans.
Promotional:  SIDBI acts as a nodal agency for several Government schemes such as Technology 
Upgradation Fund Scheme for the textile sector, Integrated Development of Leather Sector Scheme 
for the leather sector and Modernization/Upgradation of Food Processing Industry.
SIDBI Venture Capital Fund Ltd (SVCL) manages two funds set up by SIDBI at the national level.
• The National Venture Capital Fund for Software and IT Industry (NFSIT) is worth 100 crore INR, 
established with the focus of supporting incubation projects of small-scale units in the IT and 
related business.
• The SME Growth Fund has a corpus of 500 crore INR which targets growth-oriented businesses 
in the areas of life sciences, retailing, light engineering, food processing, IT, infrastructure related 
services, healthcare, logistics and distribution, for making primary equity and equity related 
investments.
National Bank of Agriculture 
(NABARD)Assistance and refinance to farm and rural development agro processing sectorflow to this sector in the next five years. Hence the RBI has 
mandated scheduled commercial banks to achieve 20% 
year-on-year credit growth to the MSME sector. MSMEs 
needing financial assistance can approach the banks for aid 
as per the specific schemes constituted for different types of 
financial aid. These schemes offered by multiple banks are 
expanded in Appendix B.3. Also, certain public sector banks 
provide MSMEs with various bank-specific schemes which 
have been expanded in Appendix B.4.
Government institutes and schemes
Central institutes and schemes
The following table captures in brief the nodal government 
bodies looking after MSME development and some of the 
central government financing schemes available.
6 CII - PwC  Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
Credit Guarantee Fund Trust 
for Micro and Small Enterprises 
(CGTMSE)CGTMSE, established jointly by SIDBI and the government of India, extends credit facilities to the 
micro and small enterprises sector.
The mandate is:
Credit facilities, including term loans, fund and non-fund based working capital facilities up to 1 crore 
INR extended to micro and small enterprises are guaranteed up to 80% of the amount in default, 
subject to a maximum of 65 lakh INR. With regard to loans up to 5 lakh INR to micro units, the 
coverage is 85%. Loans guaranteed under the scheme carry zero percent risk weight and provision 
for the lending institution for the guaranteed portion. The scheme also facilitates lending institutions 
by the evaluation of the credit proposals on the basis of intrinsic merits of the projects, rather than 
merely on adequacy of collaterals.
Reserve Bank of India Rural 
Planning and Credit DeptProviding refinance to nationalised banks and financial institutions in the industry sector and framing 
of policy decision in the working of banks
Exim Bank Credit facilities are available for financing all stages of the export cycle of Indian firms. The bank’s 
lines of credit (LOC) extend to commercial banks, financial institutions, regional development banks, 
and entities overseas serve as a market entry mechanism to Indian exporters and provide a safe mode 
of nonrecourse financing option to Indian exporters. The bank offers buyer’s credit and supplier’s 
credit for exports on deferred payment terms. These facilities help SMEs, to offer competitive credit 
terms to the buyers and to explore newer geographical markets.
TUF TUF facilitates those SMEs that look to improvise their technological skills. It provides 15% margin 
money subsidy for the SSI textile and jute sector in lieu of 5% interest reimbursement on investment in 
TUF compatible specified machinery subject to a capital ceiling of 200 lakh INR and ceiling on margin 
money subsidy 15 lakh INR. A minimum of 15% equity contribution from beneficiaries is ensured.
CLCSS Under CLCSS, tiny units with investment in plant and machinery of less than 10 lakh INR are eligible 
for a loan support of upto 8 lakh INR.
Tiny units with investment in plant and machinery between 10 lakh INR to 25 lakh INR are eligible for 
a loan support of upto 20 lakh INR.
Small units with investment in plant and machinery of above 25 lakh INR are eligible for a loan 
support of upto 40 lakh INR.
Interest subsidy scheme of IPR, 
which works effectively with the 
active assistance of banks and 
financial institutionsThe interest subsidy scheme helps in dispensation for labour-intensive industry by extending the 
facility of 2% interest subvention for handlooms, handicrafts, carpets and small and medium 
enterprises (SMEs).
NEF Under NEF, loans are given to firms with a project cost (including margin money for working capital) 
not exceeding 50 lakh INR in case of new projects. No interest is charged on the loan component 
except service charge of 5% p.a.
Scheme of Fund for 
Regeneration of Traditional 
Industries (SFURTI) through 
Coir Board75% for CFC, technology upgradation, product development and 100% for capacity building, market 
development with component-wise ceiling. The components of funding  are technology upgradation, 
setting-up of common facility centres (CFCs), development of new products and designs, new and 
improved packaging, etc, market promotion activities, capacity-building activities, other activities 
identified by the implementing agency (IA) as necessary for the development of the cluster
Financing for MSMEs              7Assistance in West Bengal
Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
West Bengal Handicrafts 
Development Corporation LtdPromotion and development of handicrafts through skill development and organisation of direct haats 
in rural and urban areas, to provide artisans a market 
West Bengal Industrial 
Development Corporation Ltd 
(WBIDC)Nodal agency of the state government for the promotion and financing of medium and large-scale 
industries. Provides support to industries by facilitation, financing, disbursing incentives and by 
setting up industrial parks
The West Bengal Small Industries 
Development Corporation Ltd 
(WBSIDC)Providing infrastructural support, marketing assistance, supply of raw materials and other 
promotional assistance for SSI units
West Bengal Industrial 
Infrastructure Development 
CorporationProviding supporting infrastructure relating to roads, drainage, water and power supply, street 
lighting, CFC of 12 established growth centres in the state 
West Bengal Financial Corporation 
(WBFC)Providing term loan assistance to small-scale industries in the state 
Modular Food Park Modular 
Industrial Infrastructure LtdSponsored by the FPI department, it provides infrastructure at  Dankuni and other support of food 
processing industries.
Assistance in Jharkhand
There are no specific institutes in Jharkhand but the state 
government itself undertakes promotion and support of the 
MSMEs through following activities.
• Coordination support for MSMEs to micro finance 
institutions, raw material focused market access.
• Special emphasis is given on providing common facility 
centres (CFC) mainly through public-private-partnership 
(PPP) initiatives to MSME projects of a cluster.
• Implementation of schemes such as ASIDE, Credit 
Guarantee Fund Trust Scheme, Cluster Development 
Programme for MSMEs. • Other financial support for MSMEs:
 -Tender forms for biding will be made available free 
of cost.
 -Exemption from payment of Earnest Money Deposit 
(EMD) and Security Deposit (SD)
 -Bill discounting facility will be made available on 
government orders.
 -10% price preference i.e. where the bid of micro and 
small enterprises are within 10% of L1 (Least priced 
bid), the local micro and small enterprises will be given 
an offer of reasonable part of the order at L1
Assistance in Chattisgarh
Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
Biotechnology 
Development FundThe government has set up a special Biotechnology Development Fund with an initial corpus of 30 
crore INR. 
Automotive Industries 
Policy -2012This will help automotive industry growth in state1. Various facilities under this Act are mentioned in 
Appendix  B2.
Agro and Food Processing  
industries Policy – 2012To promote the agri processing industry, the state is providing benefits to the industry. The details 
may be referred to in Appendix B.2
ITEs2/IT infrastructure 
PolicyThis provides incentives to companies setting IT projects in Chattisgarh.
• Interest subsidy of  75% of the total interest paid up to the period of seven years with a maximum 
limit of 60 lakh INR pa
• Fixed capital investment subsidy of 45% with maximum limit of 140 lakh INR
• Electricity duty exemption for upto 12 years
• VAT/CST/CGST reimbursement for a period of 5 years
Solar Policy3 Industries may enter the solar energy sector and avail of the following benefits:
• Electricity exemption till 2017
• VAT for the equipments in the project is exempted
• Cross subsidy charges are not applicable.
1 http://www.csidc.in/Automotive%20Eng.pdf
2 http://www.csidc.in/it%20english%20final.pdf
3 http://www.csidc.in/Solar%20Policy%20English%20FINAL.pdf
8 CII - PwC  Assistance in Odisha4
Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
District Co-ordination  
Committee (DCC)New small-scale units in priority sectors are entitled to interest subsidy at the rate of 5% per annum 
for a period of five years from the date of commercial production on term loans availed from 
recognised financial institutions and banks.
Small-scale industrial units (existing or new) which undertake modernisation are eligible for 
interest subsidy at the rate of 5% per annum for a period of five years from the date of completion of 
modernisation on term loans availed from recognised financial institutions and banks.
The interest subsidy will be limited to 20 lakh INR in case of small-scale units and 10 lakh INR in case 
of tiny units.
Industrial units operating in Kalahandi, Nuapada, Bolangir, Sonepur, Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada, 
Nawarangpur, Gajapati and Deogarh will get additional interest subsidy at the rate of 5% of the term 
loan or 5 lakh INR, whichever is less, as an incentive for backward area development.
Odisha Small Industries 
Corporation (OSIC)The OSIC has the following objectives:
• To provide quality raw materials
• To provide quality building materials
• To assist in marketing the products
• To act as a syndicate leader as per the IPR of the government of Odisha
• To act as a contract exchange for the MSME sector
Odisha State Financial 
Corporation (OSFC)The provide term loans on below loan limit5
Minimum: 5 lakh INR
Maximum: 1000 lakh INR (to corporations, companies, co-operative societies)
Maximum:  400 lakh INR (to proprietorship concerns and partnership  firms and trusts)
Rate of interest shall be fixed on risk-based rating of the project which will vary from 13.5% p.a. to 
15.5% p.a.
Assistance in Bihar
Name  of scheme/ institute Nature of assistance
Chief Minister Cluster 
Development Scheme6  SME requirements are the focal point of this proposed scheme. 
Bihar State Financial 
CooperationHelps in planning and arranging finance
SL Industry Subsidy Those who allotted land and shed in Industrial Area Development Authority (IADA), Export 
Promotion Industrial Park, Food Park, Agri-Export Zone, etc are eligible for subsidy after commercial 
production of unit.
• Small/Tiny unit, 50% with a ceiling of Rs. 15 lacs
• All large/Medium/Mega units 25% with a ceiling of Rs. 30 lacs 
NABARD schemes Initiatives like the urban cooperative bank, Self Help Group (SHG) were strengthened further to 
ensure wider financial inclusion and also reduce the incidence of informal credit lending and high 
interest rates in Bihar. The MSME units were made entitled to credit cards similar to the kisan credit 
card. The power loom sector needs to be included in the list of the beneficiaries eligible for credit 
linked subsidy scheme of the PMEGP as the power loom sector has already benefitted from the same 
scheme in the neighbouring state of West Bengal. The central scheme interest subsidy of 3% to enable 
weavers to access loans at the rate of 7 to 8% interest for the next three years had been implemented.
4 The Odisha government has unveiled a 1,600-crore INR investment plan aimed at creation of 32,000 new units in the MSME sector in 
the 12th Plan period (2012-17).
5 http://www.osfcindia.com/PDF/SALIENT_FEATURE_OF_LOAN_POLICY_FY-11-12.pdf
6 The scheme is pending with the central government with 54 plans forwarded. 
Financing for MSMEs              9Financial support from venture capitals
SME private equity and venture capital funds
Venture capital is a means of equity financing for rapidly-
growing MSMEs. Venture capitalists provide funds after 
carefully scrutinising projects. Their main aim is to earn 
higher returns on their investments, but their methods are 
different from traditional lenders. They take active part 
in the management of the company as well as provide the 
expertise and qualities of good bankers, technologists, 
planners and managers. As funds required by SMEs are too 
large for microfinance institutions and too small or too risky 
for commercial banks, this is one of the primal issues that 
the PE/VC component addresses as part of the investment 
promotion of the consolidated project for SME development 
in India.
Advantages of VC funding
Venture capital has a number of advantages over other 
forms of finance:
It injects long-term equity finance which provides a solid 
capital base for future growth. 
The venture capitalist is a business partner, sharing both 
the risks and rewards. Venture capitalists are rewarded by 
business success and capital gain. The venture capitalist 
is able to provide practical advice and assistance to the 
company based on past experience.
The venture capitalist also has a network of contacts in 
many areas that can add value to the company, such as in 
recruiting key personnel, providing contacts in international 
markets, introductions to strategic partners, and if needed, 
co-investments with other venture capital firms when 
additional rounds of financing are required.
Mode and criteria for investment
Venture capital provides financial assistance primarily 
by way of equity or equity-linked capital investment. It 
also endeavours to provide mentoring support and other 
value addition to enable funded companies to achieve 
rapid growth and achieve  and maintain their competitive 
edge in domestic and international markets. The VC fund 
seeks a strategic stake in the funded companies with board 
representation and other rights as venture capital investor.
Key criteria for SME project selection are as follows:
• Strong and committed core team
• Growth potential
• Long-term competitive advantage
• Viable business plan
• A clear exit plan
Institutions offering VC/ PE
Some venture capital firms, institutional investors and banks 
who provide venture capital to MSMEs are as follows:
• SIDBI Venture Capital Limited (SVCL)
• IFCI Venture Capital Funds Limited (IVCF)
• Helion Venture Partners/ Erasmic Venture Fund• Accel India Venture Fund/ SeedFund
• Upstream Ventures
• Aavishkaar India Micro Venture Capital Fund (AIMVCF)
• IL&FS Trust Company Limited
• Infinity Venture India Fund
• Walden International Investment Group
• SEAF India Investment and Growth Fund
• BTS India Private Equity Fund Limited
• Canbank Venture Capital Fund
• SBI Capital Markets Limited
• ICICI Bank’s SME venture capital fund
• IDBI Bank’s SME venture capital fund
This is not an exhaustive list and there are many niche 
VC funds who actively participate in providing financial 
assistance to SMEs.
New channels of financial aid
Access to equity capital through SME 
exchanges
There is a general lack of awareness among SMEs about 
equity capital, stock markets and funding options, other 
than banks. So far, there have been only debt-financing 
options, without any access to alternative equity options.  
The small and medium exchanges for SMEs listing norms 
unlike the regular listing on a SME platform through an IPO 
are a major introduction. Meant for SMEs with a paid-up 
capital of less than 25 crore INR, it empowers them to tap 
into the capital markets by getting listed on the exchange 
without having to make any initial public offering.
To enable SMEs to get over the liquidity crisis that they 
continue facing, regulators have mandated market making 
in the SME Exchange platform, to ensure that liquidity 
is generated. The handholding of the company by the 
merchant banker in the form of market making will create 
the liquidity on the SME Platform.
Moreover, the sector is highly unorganised and fragmented, 
and the new SME exchange will facilitate the creation of a 
financial ecosystem for SMEs in India.
The trend in this sector has been of overleveraging debts 
for lack of opportunity to raise equity capital. The revised 
ecosystem therefore has to justify opportunities of raising 
equity capital, balancing the debt equity ratios of companies 
and facilitate these enterprises to sustain a healthy balance 
sheet. The need for Indian SMEs to acquire capital at low 
cost to compete at a global level is one of the key factors 
behind the creation of this revised framework.
The newly introduced SME exchange will acknowledge 
the expansion aspirations of these SMEs and help them 
find solutions to their financial requirement. Companies 
will be high on the valuation matrix, once they get listed 
10 CII - PwC  on the exchange. The tax benefits are immense as well. 
By remaining unlisted, any company attracts a 15% long-
term capital gains tax on the sale of shares, while a listed 
company attracts none.
The listing will also hopefully bring about a sea change in 
transparency and corporate governance in the listed firms 
and ensure better visibility among investors.
Compliance norms have also been simplified to the 
advantage of the SMEs. They need to submit half-yearly 
financial results instead of quarterly ones. SMEs can send 
the abridged version of the annual report with the details 
of the profit-and-loss account and balance sheet to the 
shareholders, instead of a full annual report. They can 
make the soft copy of the annual report available on their 
website. They can send the soft copy to the Exchange, 
regulators and the ROC also. This will bring down the 
recurrent cost of compliance substantially for listed 
companies on the SME Exchange7. 
The enlistment also comes with a market making support 
for three years in the secondary market which will ideally 
help create the desired liquidity for SMEs. Considering the 
fact that there are 15 million to 20 million investors in the 
capital market who can invest in these companies through 
any of the branches and franchisees of more than 1600 
BSE members, the influence on the investor base for these 
SMEs will be manifold, thus improving their valuation and 
promoting wealth creation.
The SMEs listed on the SME exchange can migrate to the 
BSE main board without bringing a fresh IPO, if the paid-up 
capital of the listed SME is above 10 crore INR and the non-
promoter shareholders approve the migration by a two-third 
majority. This is a bonus for the listed SMEs8. 
Extension of state Industrial Promotion 
Assistance Scheme
The Industrial Promotion Assistance scheme provides 
financial assistance to micro and small enterprises in the 
state. This scheme was supposed to come to an end on 31 
March 2013. However, owing to the government’s clear 
focus on the employment-intensive micro and small scale 
enterprises the Finance Minister of West Bengal stated an 
extension of this scheme till 31 March 20149. Scheme for financial aid in R&D 
The mini tools room and training centre scheme is focused 
to develop more tool room facilities and R&D intended to 
provide technological support to MSMEs. This is conceived 
as one of the prime aids in driving investment in R&D and 
technology by the SMEs. 
The Finance Minister’s recognition of technology as a 
driver of growth was exemplified with a sum of 2200 crore 
INR pledged for 15 additional tool rooms and technology 
development centres to be set up by the Ministry of Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises.
The importance of technology and IT services in the growth 
story of SMEs in India has been growing over the past few 
years. The trend being the fact that while Indian enterprises 
are investing cautiously in traditional technology in 2013, 
they are likely to increase investments in R&D in the areas of 
emerging technologies such as mobility, data analytics and 
cloud computing to improve their core business. 
Securitisation of SME credit
SME credit could be converted into loan pools or securitised 
assets and sold to investors interested in investing in such 
asset classes. The RBI had issued new guidelines for the 
securitisation of standard assets in order to enable creation 
of a true securitisation market in India. These guidelines 
have numerous safeguards embedded in them to enhance 
the quality of the pass-through certificates (PTCs) issued in 
any securitisation transaction. 
A precedence can be seen in a recent transaction by a 
Chennai-based NBFC, IFMR capital, who closed the first of a 
kind PTC  in India, with its partner Vistaar Financial services 
Pvt Ltd, a Bangalore-based NBFC, worth 77.2 million INR. 
IFMR intends to conduct further transactions of a similar 
kind and is building a pipeline of SME lenders. They are 
also planning to replicate a multi-originator (MOSEC) 
structure for small business lenders, the intent being that of 
building up several instances of such institutions using their 
knowledge and expertise to create such an asset class in a 
systemic manner against a strong underwriting framework 
and subsequently marketing it to larger investor franchisees. 
These transactions in turn will open the capital markets to 
small business lenders at a cost reasonable to them and this 
will boost funding to SMEs.
7 SME World article dated April 2012: http://www.smeworld.org/story/sme-exchange/sme-exchange-launched.php
8 http://articles.economictimes.indiatimes.com/2012-10-25/news/34729842_1_sm e-platform-bse-sme-exchange-debt-and-equity-ratios
9 Government of West Bengal:  Annual Financial Statement for the Financial Year 2013-14 http://www.wbfin.nic.in/writereaddata/
Speech%20English.pdf
Financing for MSMEs              11Improving credit health for MSMEs
Credit related issues
MSMEs depend predominantly on internal sources of 
finance (personal savings, loan from relatives, and loan from 
local money lenders) than that of institutional financing 
by banks and other financing institutions. An indication is 
that even in recent times, MSME credit as a percentage of 
net bank credit of commercial banks has been below 15%.  
Banks perceive MSMEs as risky field of investment due to 
the following:
• Low growth rate of small firms
• Firms following informal business practices
• Inability of MSME owners to maintain collateral securities
• Lack of credit worthiness and goodwill
• Relatively high processing costs (in background checks, 
etc)
• Lack of transparency due to poor reporting of firm data
Some of the reasons cited above are uncontrollable from the 
perspective of MSMEs. MSMEs generally operate on tight 
budgets, and are often unable to procure adequate financial 
resources for the purchase of machinery, equipment, raw 
materials, or even day-to-day operational expenses. This 
is because on account of their low goodwill and limited 
fixed investment base, they find it difficult to borrow at 
reasonable rates from institutions. Hence, for an MSME, 
any unforeseen event (large order, rejection of consignment 
or inordinate delay in customer payment) may result in the 
unit having close operations due to lack of funds. Also, the 
dearth of capital also implies there is little scope for growth 
and expansion. Role of credit rating in financing
One of the most important procedures taken by financial 
institutes that offer credit to MSMEs is to scrutinise their 
credit rating status in order to get a clear picture of the 
creditworthiness of the enterprises. Credit rating is done by 
the credit rating agency (CRA) which assigns credit ratings 
for issuers of certain types of debt obligations as well as the 
debt instruments themselves to form a basis to prove the 
authenticity of the new firms who seek financial help from 
different organisations for their business. Hence, credit 
ratings are used by investors, issuers, investment banks, 
broker-dealers, and governments.
Credit rating is done on the basis of credit scores that 
are numerical values assigned to the MSMEs based on 
a statistical analysis to notify their credit worthiness. 
These scores are often evaluated on the basis of the credit 
reputation of a company, commonly known as a credit 
report, available from the Credit Bureau of India. 
The government of India also operates a specialised rating 
agency known as the SME Rating Agency of India Limited 
(SMERA), which  is a third-party rating agency exclusively 
set up for micro, small and medium enterprises in India for 
ratings on creditworthiness. It provides ratings which enable 
only MSME units to raise bank loans at competitive rates of 
interest. SMERA’s MSME rating scale consists of two parts, a 
composite appraisal/condition indicator and a size indicator. 
SMERA rating categorises MSMEs based on size, so as to 
enable fair evaluation of each MSME amongst its peers. 
SMERA’s MSME rating scale is specified below:
Condition indicator
MSME 1 Highest  
MSME 2 High   
 MSME 3 Above average  
MSME 4 Average  
MSME 5 Below average  
MSME 6 Inadequate  
MSME 7 Low  
MSME 8 Lowest
Size indicator (based on net worth)
A 20Cr INR and above
B Between 5 Cr INR and 20 Cr INR
C Between 1Cr INR and 5Cr INR
D Less than 1Cr INR
12 CII - PwC  Some of the important credit rating agencies working in 
India are CRISIL, CARE, ICRA, FITCH RATING, NDIA and 
ONICRA.
A scheme for performance and credit rating mechanism 
for SSIs has been formulated by the government of India 
in consultation with the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) 
and various rating agencies. The National Small Industries 
Corporation (NSIC) has been appointed the nodal agency 
for implementation of this scheme. Under the scheme, the 
NSIC provides subsidy in the rating fees to the small scale 
industrial units (SSIs) obtaining credit ratings from the 
agencies which are empanelled by them.
Guide to better credit worthiness
There are several guidelines laid down by the United 
Nations, the RBI and many others to safeguard the working 
of MSMEs. The most common teething problem faced by 
MSMEs is getting access to credit. One of the best ways 
to ensure credit worthiness, as recommended by many 
organizations, is to go for credit rating by a third party. 
Some others include the following: 
• Credit rating not only ensures the credibility of the SME, 
but also helps them to get interest relaxation against credit 
from banks even in future credit applications.
• Credit rating assists the MSMEs in building their business 
credibility and hence, reduces the perceived risk of default 
from the banks’ perspective.• Credit worthiness may be further improved by increasing 
the level of transparency and process rigour in record 
keeping and financial reporting. Most micro enterprises 
are weak in this aspect and this may be greatly improved 
through rating. Rating involves analysis for which the 
starting point is the financial statement of the firm. The last 
line should be: Hence, this process also increases the level 
of discipline and record keeping standards in MSMEs. 
• Financing institutes also apply qualitative parameters 
extensively in gauging the credit worthiness of an MSME 
applicant since the financial statements furnished 
may not reflect the correct business strength. Such 
parameters would include typically organisation 
structure, background check of promoters (and family), 
management strength, resilience of the firm, quality of 
product, supplier and client network, trade relationships, 
previous credit defaults (by any director or kin), etc. 
Hence, maintaining transparency is of utmost importance 
in building credit worthiness. The other aspect is of having 
well-defined processes and adhering to them that would 
ensure quality of product, consistency of delivery, etc. 
• Credit rating also helps an MSME by getting more 
financial support as banks may increase their credit limits 
due to higher comfort factor in transacting with a well 
rated MSME.
• The rating also allows the MSMEs to expand their market 
base, get new contracts from export markets.
Financing for MSMEs              13Expanding the financing horizon
Any start-up generally seeks financial support. Usually in 
the MSME sector, start-up capital is funded by personal 
savings, borrowings from the unregulated market or family 
members. Sometimes, such funding may be sufficient, but 
most of the time, the requirement for financial support is 
not met. 
Organisations can seek financial assistance depending on 
the project and the financial support provided by various 
financial institutes.
Approach to a sound project report
Any company seeking financial assistance for the 
implementation of its business idea is required to prepare a 
project report covering the following aspects of the project:
• Promoters background and experience
• Product with capacity to be built up and processes 
involved
• Project location
• Cost of the project and means of financing 
•  Availability of utilities
• Technical arrangements
• Market prospects and selling arrangements
• Environmental aspects
• Profitability projections and cash flows for the entire 
repayment period of financial assistance
Since the appraisal of the project involves evaluation in the 
following key areas, submitting certain key information in 
these areas is necessary to ensure a watertight and viable 
project report10. 
Management evaluation
The management quality of the MSME is the first and 
foremost checkpoint for the financing institution. The 
background and previous track record of the management 
and the promoters in terms of heading businesses as well 
as their credit history forms an important value add for the 
firm. The organisation structure is significant as well as it 
is checked for balance of control and responsibility. The 
incorporation documents for the company have to be in line 
with the company’s intended business vision and areas.  
Memorandum and articles of association: Object, 
authorised and paid-up share capital, promoter’s 
contribution, borrowing powers, list of directors on the 
board, terms of appointment of directors
SMEs company as the promoter: Corporate plan of 
the company, projects promoted, implemented, under 
implementation, bankers’ report on dealings and repayment 
of past loan assistance, details of group companies, 
operations, balance sheet and profit and loss account of the 
promoter companyNew promoters: Educational background, any industrial 
experience, family background, sources of income, details 
of personal properties, banker’s reference, income tax and 
wealth tax returns
Management and organisation set-up: Broad 
composition of the board, details of fulltime directors 
and their responsibilities, details of chief executive and 
functional executives including qualification, experience, 
organisation set-up for existing company and during project 
implementation for new company.
Technical feasibility
The technical feasibility is tested by the financer by a 
standard assessment procedure of mapping the local unmet 
demand for the specific service/ product being sold by the 
applying SME with factors like local competition, availability 
of raw materials and required manpower, logistics and 
infrastructure etc. The other important cog that is tested 
here for soundness is the background of the contractors 
setting up the plant/ facility and their project track record.  
The last and of increasing importance, is the environmental 
impact of the proposed project and clearances needed 
thereof. 
Technology and manufacturing process: Proven and new 
technology, basis of selection of technology, competing 
technologies, performance data of plants based on the 
technology, details of licensor of technology, process flow 
chart and description
Location of the project: Locational advantage, availability 
of raw material and other utilities, infrastructure facilities, 
availability of labour, environmental aspects
Plant and machinery:  List of machinery and equipment, 
details of suppliers, competitive quotations, technical & 
commercial evaluation of major equipment
Raw material, utilities and manpower :  Details of raw 
materials and suppliers, electricity and water supply, basis of 
manpower estimates, details of manpower, e.g. managerial, 
supervisory, skilled or unskilled, training needs
Contracts: Agreement with contractors detailing on know-
how, engineering, procurement, construction, financial 
soundness and experience of contractors
Project monitoring and implementation: Mode of 
implementation, details of monitoring team, detailed 
schedule of implementation 
Environmental aspects: Air, water and soil pollution, list 
of pollutants or hazardous substances, their safety, handling 
and disposal arrangements, compliance with national 
and international standards, clearances and no objection 
certificates required and obtained, etc.
10 SIDBI guidelines for preparing a Detailed Project report : http://smallb.in/%20/plan-new-entrepreneurship%20/guidelines-
preparing-detailed-project-report
14 CII - PwC  Commercial viability
Existing and potential market demand and supply for the 
proposed product in respect of volume and pattern
Share of the proposed product of the company in the total 
market through marketing strategy
Selling price of the product and export potential, if any
Buy-back arrangements, if any.
Financial appraisal
The financial appraisal is the most crucial aspect from the 
point of view of the financer. Here the overall costs, revenue 
projections are checked for realistic estimates, and also 
tested with sensitivity analysis by changing some crucial 
project parameters like CAGR, service cost inflation, raw 
material costs etc. The project is also measured in terms 
of payback period, break even period and internal rate 
of returns, to give an idea about the revenue and profit 
generating capacity of the project.
Cost of the project: This includes the cost of land and site 
development, building, plant and machinery, technical 
know-how and engineering fees, miscellaneous fixed assets, 
preliminary and preoperative expenses, contingencies and 
margin money for working capital. SMEs are expected 
to submit realistic estimates. The cost of the project will 
be examined with reference to various factors such as 
implementation period, inflation, various agreements, 
quotations, etc.
Means of financing: This shall have to conform to proper 
mix of share capital and debt. This includes share capital, 
unsecured loans from promoters or associates, internal 
accruals, term loans, government subsidy or grant. The 
reasonableness of promoters’ contribution in the form 
of equity and interest-free unsecured loans, if any, is 
ascertained in view of commitment to the project. 
Profitability projections: Past records of financial 
performance of SME will be examined. SMEs need to submit 
profitability estimates, cash flow and projected balance sheet 
for the project and for the company as a whole. Based on 
the projections, various financial ratios such as debt -equity 
ratio, current ratio, fixed asset coverage ratio, gross profit, 
operating profit, net profit ratios, internal rate of return(over 
the economic life of the project), debt service coverage ratio, 
earning per share, dividend payable, etc. will be worked out 
to ascertain financial soundness of the project. Economic viability
This aspect is checked for projects where there is either export 
orientation or probability of international players entering the 
domestic market in same area of service/ product as the SME. 
Hence this is particularly relevant for IT related businesses as 
well as any FMCG or light engineering venture.
SMEs will have to take real value of input as against the 
value accounted in financial analysis for the economic 
evaluation of the project.
SMEs should carry out social cost benefit analysis as a 
measure of the costs and benefits of the project to the society 
and the economy.
Economic analysis is aimed at the inherent strength of the 
project to withstand international competition on its own.
Apart from the mandatory documents MSME borrowers can 
make convincing business cases for funding by keeping the 
following things in mind while approaching any lender.
MSME borrowers can meet their borrowing requirements 
and avail the best possible terms if they approach banks or 
financial institutions in an appropriate manner. They must 
clearly understand the various criteria that banks employ 
to screen, rate and process their loan applications and the 
importance of furnishing precise and correct information. As 
commercial credit bureaus (particularly CIBIL) expand their 
database, it will become progressively easier for financial 
institutions to track past repayment or default behaviour of 
loan applicants.
Business plans
They should ideally have an updated business plan for their 
company, showing intended capital investments and forecast 
revenue and expenditure for the next three to five years. 
This is an excellent document to produce during discussions 
with a banker or financial adviser. 
Having a feasibility study of the project the fund is intended 
for might prove to be useful as well. Feasibility studies are 
usually carried out in connection with medium- or long-
term projects and are consequently prepared, among other 
reasons, as an aid to raising medium- to long-term project 
loan finance. They may wish to start a new project or 
expand an existing activity, and need capital to finance the 
additional capital goods required (e.g., machinery, tools, 
spares and raw materials). MSMEs will need a feasibility 
study to present to their banker. They will also need to 
give copies of draft or actual loan agreements with other 
lending institutions. These are important because the loan 
agreements may stipulate that they cannot borrow from 
another lender unless the loan is subordinated to them. This 
may mean that they cannot pledge fixed or current assets 
if the first lenders have fixed and floating charges on such 
assets. They may be limited to providing their bank with a 
second charge or some other, less secure, form of guarantee. 
In many respects, the feasibility study is not dissimilar in its 
presentation to the business plan. The main difference lies in 
its purpose.
Financing for MSMEs              15Use of alternative financing options
In spite of the various policies created to augment financial 
support to SMEs and the growth in the credit limits of banks, 
SMEs still face challenges when it comes to accessing timely 
and sufficient credit at a reasonable cost. The credit flow to 
them is not aligned to the needs of the economic activities 
undertaken by them. According to a RBI report,11  statistics 
reveal that small businesses rely on multiple sources of 
financing ranging from internal sources namely personal 
funds and funds from friends, to external sources ,both 
formal and informal, which include financing from banks, 
NBFCs, venture capital funds, trade credit factoring, etc. 
The raw sample includes more than 14,000 non-financial 
firms. In particular, trade credits (bank loans) are less 
(more) important for Indian firms based on the World Bank 
surveys.  These findings are one of the many indicators of 
the increasing importance of alternative source of financing 
for SMEs in India.
Factoring
Factoring is a form of receivables finance whereby a business 
sells or assigns its accounts receivables (i.e. invoices) to 
a finance company (a factor) at a discount in exchange 
for immediate money with which to finance continued 
business.12 The delayed payment cycle by the large 
scale customers of SMEs have an adverse effect on their 
operational facets and fund recycling efforts.
A CRISIL study on 5000 small and medium enterprises 
(SMEs) reveals that SMEs can enhance profits by at least 15 
per cent if they receive payments on time from their large 
corporate customers. CRISIL estimates that timely payments 
from large customers will help SMEs reduce interest costs, 
improve profitability and have a positive impact on the long-
term health and sustainability of India’s SME sector. SMEs 
with large corporate customers have receivables of 90 to 
120 days of sales on their balance sheets, as against 45 days 
stipulated by the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises 
Development (MSMED) Act. 
Factoring is capable of providing SMEs with the liquidity 
needed against their receivables and can be efficient 
alternate source of working capital. Factors buy the right 
to collect on invoices raised against any sales by the SME 
and releases 80-90% of the invoice value to the firm. It is on 
account of its superior conversion time of receivables into 
cash, absence of geographical restraints, non requirement 
collateral security etc makes it a much preferred and 
superior product than bank finance.
The Indian factoring market is still at a nascent stage. As per 
the Factors Chain International (FCI), a global network of 
factoring companies worldwide, the turnover of India is only 
2750 million euros, which is less than half of the turnover of 
Singapore and not even 2% of China’s turnover.  There are 
nearly 10 factoring companies in India with Canbank factors 
and SBI Global Factors being two of the oldest.Supply chain finance
Supply chain finance can prove to be another route to 
facilitate SMEs’ access to enhanced working capital from 
bank and non bank sources. This mode of financing enables 
SME suppliers to large OEMS to receive short-term credit 
against the volume supplied during the payment receivable 
period. HSBC for instance has a distributor finance 
programme (DFP) which assists in creating the support 
framework for financing and collection for any SME client’s 
delivery chain. Regular MIS helps the SME update their 
sales ledgers and avoid reconciliation issues.
Angel funds or venture capital funds
SMEs involved in commercialising innovations and high-end 
technologies need to be able to access venture or risk capital 
fund effectively. These firms need finance during the initial 
stages of conceptualising their product offerings ( seed 
phase) and during development and marketing phase. These 
concept and ideas generally need an incubation period 
before they can be utilised for generating revenue or profit. 
This is where venture capital comes in to provide them with 
funds required to enter new markets and attain accelerated 
growth. The GOI in terms of the recommendations of the 
PM’s task force has been working towards clearing the SME 
route towards accessing this kind of much needed fund. 
In the Union Budget 2012-13 the Finance Minister had 
announced to set up a 50 billion INR India Opportunities 
Venture Fund with SIDBI to enhance the availability of 
equity to the MSME sector.
With the government of India putting the development of 
the MSME sector as top priority, and the state governments 
of the eastern region aligning themselves to this objective 
through implementation of various schemes, the future for 
MSMEs in the east is brightening up. The MSME companies 
need to be aware of the schemes and financial aids being 
offered through various banking and non-banking channels 
to fund their innovation. With increasing participation of 
SMEs in the innovative exchange platform, along with their 
active opt-in for third party credit ratings, access to capital, 
both equity and debt, should no longer be a bottleneck for 
growth and expansion. These financial aids and processes 
will not only give the MSMEs a much needed reprieve from 
their liquidity crunch, but also help them in instilling the 
rigour of process, transparency and quality.
11 Strengthening SMEs Capabilities for Global Competitiveness  (Address by Dr. K. C. Chakrabarty, Deputy Governor, Reserve 
Bank of India at the interactive session on 8 October  2012 at Mumbai) http://www .rbi.org.in/scripts/BS_SpeechesView.aspx?id=739
12 SME World article dated Sep 2011 http://www.smeworld.org/story/money/factoring-alternative-source-of-wc.php
16 CII - PwC  Appendix A. - MSME support links
A.1. State level banker’s committees 
These SLBCs may be contacted for financing options 
available for MSMEs
SLBC West Bengal http://www.slbcbengal.com/contact.asp
SLBC Jharkhand http://slbcallahabadbank.com/index.html
SLBC Odisha http://Odisha.gov.in/finance/slbc/co.htm
SLBC Bihar http://slbc.bih.nic.in/Contact.htm
SLBC Chattisgarh http://slbcchhattisgarh.com/index.asp A.2. Banks and institutes for credit linked 
capital subsidy scheme
S.No Name of Bank Related Link
1. Canara Bank http://www.canarabank.com/english/
scripts/prioritycredit.aspx
2. NABARD http://www.nabard.org/nonfarm_
sector/clcss.asp
3. SIDBI http://www.sidbi.com/governmentclcss.
asp
4. Bank of 
Barodahttp://www.bankofbaroda.com/bbs/
clcss.asp
5. Punjab 
National Bankhttp://www.pnbindia.in/En/ui/Home.
aspx
7. Andhra Bank http://andhrabank.in/english/clcss.aspx
Appendix B. - Highlights of existing 
schemes and policies
B.1. Important schemes in West Bengal
B.1.1.1. Schemes from WBIDC
WBIDC’s key function is to provide financial assistance to 
investors for setting up new medium as well as expansion, 
diversification and modernisation of existing units. The 
loans are available in the following  forms:
1. Normal term loan2. Term loan under equipment finance scheme (EFS)
In this scheme the loan can be up to 77.5% of the cost of 
capital goods or equipment (other than second hand for 
indigenous capital goods or equipments) to be acquired.
Extent of loan No limit, however subject to 
Prudential norms
Type of rate Floating rate
Applicable rate Term loan interest rate i.e. 13.75% 
per annum
Moratorium Up to nine months
Repayment period Up to 5 years
Interest payments Payable quarterlyExtent of loan No limit, however subject to 
prudential norms
Type of rate Floating rate
PLR 12.75%
Applicable rate PLR + upto 1% per annum
Moratorium Up to 18 months
Repayment period Up to 7 years
Interest payments Payable quarterly
Note: Applicable rate of interest for term loan varies from 
PLR (12.75%) + up to 1% per annum depending on credit 
rating of the company.Note: In case of imported second hand capital goods or 
equipments certificate from chartered engineer regarding the 
condition of the capital goods or equipments and their expected 
residual life has to be provided.
Financing for MSMEs              173. Short term loan
Extent of loan No limit, however, subject to prudential norms
Type of rate Fixed rate
Applicable rate Term loan interest rate + up to 50 bps = 
14.25% per annum
Moratorium Up to nine months
Note: Total installments and interest should be met in PDCs 
within nine months from disbursement.
B.1.1.2. Schemes from the NABARD
From the current year, the NABARD  offers direct loan to 
SMEs and farm sectors. It will also step up its fiscal support 
for the farming and agro sector as well as the rural India 
based MSMEs. Loan from banks with refinance facility from 
NABARD is available for starting many of the agricultural 
activities including dairy farming. The margin money 
depends on the category of the borrowers and range from 
5 to 25%. Banks are free to decide the rates of interest 
within the overall guidelines. However, for working out the 
financial viability and bankability of the model projects it 
has been assumed the rate of interest would be 12 % p.a for 
ultimate borrowers.
Scheme Nature of Assistance Amount
Production 
CreditThis is a short-term refinance facility, aimed at supporting 
agricultural production operations and marketing of crops by 
farmers and farmers cooperatives marketing and distribution of 
inputs like fertilisers, seeds and pesticides.
Production and marketing activities of village cottage industries, 
handicrafts, handlooms, power looms, artisans, small scale and 
tiny industries and other rural non-farm enterprises.Eligible institutions for this facility are state cooperative 
banks (SCBs) and regional rural banks (RRBs). The 
period of credit is 12 months.
Short Term 
CreditThis is a short term financing facility for agricultural operations, 
pisciculture activities and distribution of agricultural inputs.Refinance is provided for production purposes at 
concessional rate of interest to state cooperative banks 
(SCBs) and regional rural banks (RRBs) by way of 
sanction of credit limits. Each withdrawal against the 
sanctioned credit limit is repayable within 12 months.
Direct 
CreditSupporting cooperatives in order to strengthen the owned funds 
position of cooperative credit institutions and thereby increasing 
their capacity to leverage larger resources, NABARD provides 
loans to state governments to contribute to the share capital of 
these institutions.Direct credit is provided by regional rural banks and 
government banks. Extent of loan No limit, however, subject to prudential norms
Type of rate Fixed rate
Applicable rate Term loan interest rate i.e 13.75% per annum
Repayment 15 months
Interest 
paymentsPayable quarterly4. Bridge loan
WBIDC offers bridge loans up to 60% of the admitted claim 
of state government incentives as per the following terms:B.2. Facilities under specific policies in 
Chhattisgarh
B.2.1.1. Facilities under the Automotive Industries 
Policy -2012
Details of facilities Schemes and rebates, grants and incentives
VAT 
reimbursementLimited to maximum 115% of the capital 
investment for original and ancillary unit, 
for a maximum period expiring before 
18 years whichever is earlier. This rebate 
shall be equivalent to the VAT paid for the 
sale of finished products manufactured by 
automotive industrial units. The rebate shall 
be available as capital investment incentive. 
The unit shall have an option to receive the 
incentive under this policy or to avail capital 
investment grant under industrial policy, as 
applicable at the time.
CST rebate For the period of 18 years 50% on the rate 
prevailing at that time.
Entry tax 
exemption100% rebate from purchase of first
Raw material for the project for period of 8 
years.
Electricity duty 
rebateFor the period of 10 years from the date of 
commencing commercial production.
Stamp duty 
exemption100% on sale/lease related documents of 
land, buildings, sheds and flat.
Exemption from 
registration fee100% exemption on land, buildings, sheds 
and flat.
18 CII - PwC  Details of 
facilitiesSchemes and rebates, grants and incentives
Reimbursement 
Concession in 
VAT and central 
sales taxMaximum limit is 150 % of the fixed capital 
investment, up to maximum period of 10 
years. This exemption shall be equal to the 
amount of VAT and Central Sales Tax Act 
paid in connection with the sale of goods 
produced by the food processing units. This 
exemption will be in the form of capital 
incentive assistance. The unit will have option 
that they should get this  ‘incentive assistance’ 
under this policy or avail benefit of fixed 
capital investment subsidy applicable under 
the Industrial Policy of the state government, 
in force at that time. Calculation of assistance 
amount will be done on the basis of VAT 
payable on sale and central sales tax payable 
on the interstate sale.
Entry tax rebate Hundred per cent exemptions for the period 
of 7- years from the date of commencement of 
commercial production.
Electrical duty 
exemptionHundred per cent exemption for the period of 
10 years from the date of commencement of 
commercial production
Mandi tax 
exemptionTotal exemption of Mandi tax leviable on the 
agro few products shall be granted to the agro 
and food products processing units from the 
date of first purchase of raw materials from 
the Mandies of the state for the period of five 
years, maximum limit of the exemption will be 
equal to 75% of the fixed capital investment of 
the processing unitB.2.1.2. Facilities under the Agro and Food 
Processing Industries Policy – 2012B.3. General financing schemes
These are few financing schemes drafted for the MSMEs, 
which the industry could approach for( depending on 
their requirement). Almost all the public sector banks do 
provide the following schemes. The MSMEs are advised to 
visit the Banks with their requirement to get more detailed 
information.
Name Scheme particulars and workings
SME Credit Card 
(up to 10 lakh INR)Loans are for the micro enterprises 
including SSI units, small business 
enterprises, professional and self employed 
persons, small retail traders, transport 
operators etc for meeting any kind of credit 
requirement including purchase of shops, 
maximum limit being 10 lakh INR including 
term loan and working capital loan. The 
loan will be sanctioned for three years with 
an annual review. 
SME Smart Score 
(up to 50 lakh 
INR)The loan product is for manufacturing trade 
and services segments to meet working 
capital needs and for acquisition of fixed 
assets. A simplified appraisal model has 
been developed to standardise the appraisal 
process for loans up to 50 lakhs INR in SSI 
sector and up to  25 lakh INR for trade and 
services sector available with attractive 
interest rates. The loan will be sanctioned 
for two years with an annual review.
SBI SMILE 
(interest free loan 
as equity)The scheme provides interest free loan 
as equity assistance towards part of 
margin requirements of the project, to 
assist eligible professional and technically 
qualified entrepreneurs setting up new 
micro and small enterprises and units 
covered under the bank’s project uptake for 
technology upgradation. Equity assistance 
is up to a maximum of 10 lakh INR. The 
interest free loan is repayable in three years 
with a moratorium period of 5-7 years.
General Purpose 
Term Loan for SSI 
sector (up to 50 
lakh INR)This product is for existing borrowers for 
any general commercial purpose such 
as shoring up of net working capital, 
substitution of high cost debt, R&D, ISO 
certification, etc. subject to disbursement 
being made in line with the specific purpose 
approved. The maximum loan available is 
50 lakh INR repayable in maximum period 
of five years.
Open Term Loan 
(up to2.5 crore 
INR)A pre-sanctioned term loan with limit 
up to  2.5 crore INR for existing or new 
corporate or non-corporate customers in 
manufacturing sector and up to 1 crore 
INR for hotels, hospitals, educational 
institutions in service sector.
The sanctioned limit is valid for a year. 
Margin requirement is 10%. The borrower 
can utilise pre-approved sanction to plan 
capital expenditure and negotiate with 
suppliers of machinery and finalize best 
possible contract.
Financing for MSMEs              19Name Scheme particulars and workings
Corporate Loan 
(from  25 lakh INR 
up to 10 crore INR)The scheme provides term loan for all 
existing customers and established non 
customers (subject to takeover norms of the 
bank) in manufacturing sector. Quantum 
of finance is minimum 25 lakh INR and 
maximum 10 crore INR for non-corporate 
and no cap for corporate borrowers. No 
margins are required under the scheme. A 
maximum of three corporate loans can be 
outstanding per borrower at any point of 
time.
SME Credit Plus For existing and new borrowers this scheme 
provides a clean cash credit facility to meet 
contingencies. Under the scheme 20% of 
aggregate WC or max 25 lakh INR fund 
based limit can be availed. Margins are not 
required and interest rate will be same as 
applicable to cash credit limit. The facility is 
repayable in two months and can be availed 
for 12 times a year.
Standby Line of 
Credit For existing units including export units, an 
additional working capital(fund based and 
non-fund based) limit by way of cash credit, 
packing credit and bills discounting against 
stock, receivables to meet contingencies 
such as bunching of orders, delay in 
shipment, sudden increase in raw material 
prices, mismatch in cash flows. Under this 
15% of aggregate working capital or max 
5 crore INR can be availed. Margins as 
applicable to original limit.
Rice Mill Plus Term loan for acquisition of machinery, 
factory building for modernisation, 
expansion and working capital needs of rice 
mills engaged in milling, sorting, grading 
and polishing. No upper ceiling on loan 
amount.
SME Collateral 
Free Loan 
(SMECFL)Collateral free loan for viable projects 
of micro and small enterprises in 
manufacturing and service sector with 
maximum guarantee cover up to1 crore INR 
under the CGTMSE guarantee scheme for 
working capital and term loan (FB+NFB) 
facilities.
Traders Easy Loan Easy loan for specific business needs of 
traders, self-employed, small business 
enterprises, agents engaged in purchase 
and sale of food grains etc. Loan can be 
availed for normal day to day business 
requirements or for purchase of equipment/ 
fixed assets. Loan is available up to 5 crore 
INR with very competitive rate of interest.
Dal Mill Plus Term loan for dal mill owners for 
acquisition of machinery, factory building, 
modernization and all working capital 
needs.
Artisan Credit 
CardMaximum loan under the scheme is 2 lakh 
INR. The scheme provides loans to Artisans 
to meet their credit requirements both for 
investments as well as working capital in a 
flexible manner at liberal rates of interest.Name Scheme particulars and workings
SME Construction 
Equipment LoanMaximum loan available is up to 25 crore 
INR with minimum margin applicable up 
to 15%. Tenure of loan can be extended 
up to maximum of four years. Term loan 
for purchase of construction equipments 
viz. loaders, excavators, cranes etc., 
for contractors and firms engaged in 
construction activity.
SME Car Loan Loans for purchase of passenger cars, 
jeeps, multi utility vehicles, etc., to the 
promoter/partner/senior executives of the 
SME units having borrowing arrangements 
with the bank.
B.4. Snapshot of bank-specific schemes
Some of the bank specific schemes are outlined below. 
The MSMEs can contact the nearest regional branch of 
the following banks to get more details of the schemes 
mentioned below.
Banks Schemes
State Bank Of 
IndiaCommodity backed warehouse receipt 
financing, SSI loans, Traders easy loan 
scheme, Open term loan, Business current 
accounts, Retail Trade, SBI Shoppe, SME 
Petro Credit, Small business credit card, 
Paryatan Plus,  Swarojgar credit card, etc.
Bank of Baroda Baroda SME Gold Card, Baroda Vidyasthali 
Loan, KVIC-ISEC,  Scheme for Financing 
Energy Efficiency Projects, Baroda Overdraft 
Against Land and Building, Baroda SME Loan 
Pack, Baroda Arogyadham Loan etc.
Export Import 
banks of India Agri Finance, Several Debt Restructuring 
schemes for Small and Medium      Enterprises 
(SMEs) etc.
United Bank of 
IndiaUnited Doctor Plus, United Medical Plus, 
United Mahila Udhyami Yojana, United Shilpi 
Card, United Udyogshree Yojana etc.
Indian Bank IND SME secure, IB Doctor Plus, IB BPO 
finance, IB Vidya mandir, IB ayushman 
Scheme, IB my own shop etc.
Central Bank of 
IndiaCent trade, Cent Doctor scheme etc.
I.D.B.I. Entrepreneurial development fund, Dealer 
finance program, SME hosiery A/C etc.
Corporation 
BankOne-Time Settlement Scheme for NPA  under 
SME, Corp Kisan Vehicle Loan Yojna, Corp 
Kisan Farm Mechanisation Scheme, Corp 
Kisan Tie-Up Loan Scheme, Corp Gram Mitra 
Yojana etc.
Vijaya Bank Liquidity Finance To MSEs, Technology 
Upgradation Fund Scheme For MSE, Vijaya 
Kisan Card, Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme 
To MSE, etc.
20 CII - PwC  Banks Schemes
Union Bank of 
IndiaUnion high pride, Union support, Union 
transport,  Union Cyber etc.
P.N.B. PNB vikash udyami, PNB SME sahayog 
scheme etc.
Syndicate Bank Synd Vyapar,  Synd Udyog, Synd Swarozgar 
Credit Card, Synd Laghu Udhyami Credit 
Card, Synd General Credit Card etc.
Dena Bank Dena Shakti Scheme[for women 
entrepreneurs],  Scheme for financing wind 
mills Channel financing scheme for dealers / 
suppliers etc.
UCO bank SME Medium Term Loans, Scheme for 
Financing Energy Efficiency Projects etc.
Allahabad Bank Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) 
Advances etc.
Andhra Bank Composite loan scheme,  Composite loan 
scheme, Term Finance, Open cash credit 
(OCC), AB Power Tools (Shakti) etc.
ICICI Bank Ltd. The ICICI bank edge, vendor bill discounting, 
SME dialogue etc.
HDFC Bank Ltd. Working capital finance, construction 
equipment loan, commercial vehicle finance, 
Credit substitute, Export credit etc.
Yes Bank Ltd. Working capital loans, Term loans, Export 
finance etc.
Axis Bank Financing to Non-Priority Sector Entities, 
Overdraft against Property, Financing to 
Priority Sector Entities, Term Loan against 
Property, Lease Rent Discounting, Business 
Loan for Property (BLFP) etc.
Kotak Mahindra 
BankKotak Business Loan, Working Capital 
Finance, International Import Finance, 
International export Finance.
Financing for MSMEs              21Abbreviation Explanation
ASIDE Assistance to States for Infrastructure Development of 
Exports
CFC Common facility Center
CGST  Central Goods and Services Tax
CGTMSE Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises
CII Confederation of Indian Industries
CLCSS Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme
CST Central Sales Tax
DCC District Co-ordination  Committee
DFP Distributor finance Programme
EFS Equipment Finance Scheme
EMD Earnest Money Deposit
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GOI Government of India
IADA Industrial Area Development Authority
LOC lines of credit
MSMED Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Development
MSMEs Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development
NABARD National Bank of Agriculture
NEF National Equity Fund
NFSIT National Venture Capital Fund for Software and IT
NSIC National Small Industries Corporation
OSIC Odisha Small Industries Corporation
PMEGP Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme 
PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers
SD Security Deposit
SFURTI Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries
SIDA Small Industries Development Agency
SIDBI Small Industry Development Bank of India 
SLBC State Level Banker’s Committees 
SMERA Small and Medium Enterprises Rating Agency
SMEs Small and Medium Enterprises
SVCL SIDBI Venture Capital Fund Ltd
TUF Technology Upgradation Fund
VAT Value Added Tax
VC Venture Capital
WBFC West Bengal Financial Corporation
WBIDC West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation Ltd
WBSIDC West Bengal Small Industries Development Corporation LtdAppendix C. - Abbreviations
22 CII - PwC  About CII
The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) works to create and sustain an environment conducive 
to the growth of industry in India, partnering industry and government alike through advisory and 
consultative processes.
CII is a non-government, not-for-profit, industry led and industry managed organisation, playing a 
proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 117 years ago, it is India’s premier business 
association, with a direct membership of over 7000 organisations from the private as well as public sectors, 
including SMEs and MNCs, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 companies from around 400 
national and regional sectoral associations.
CII catalyses change by working closely with government on policy issues, enhancing efficiency, 
competitiveness and expanding business opportunities for industry through a range of specialised services 
and global linkages. It also provides a platform for sectoral consensus building and networking. Major 
emphasis is laid on projecting a positive image of business, assisting industry to identify and execute 
corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with over 120 NGOs across the country carry forward our 
initiatives in integrated and inclusive development, which include health, education, livelihood, diversity 
management, skill development and water, to name a few.
The CII Theme for 2012-13, ‘Reviving Economic Growth: Reforms and Governance,’ accords top priority 
to restoring the growth trajectory of the nation, while building Global Competitiveness, Inclusivity 
and Sustainability. Towards this, CII advocacy will focus on structural reforms, both at the Centre and 
in the States, and effective governance, while taking efforts and initiatives in Affirmative Action, Skill 
Development, and International Engagement to the next level.
 With 63 offices including 10 Centres of Excellence in India, and 7 overseas offices in Australia, China, 
France,  Singapore, South Africa, UK, and USA, as well as institutional partnerships with 223 counterpart 
organisations in 90 countries, CII serves as a reference point for Indian industry and the international 
business community.
Confederation of Indian Industry
6 Netaji Subhas Road
Kolkata - 700001
Phone: 033-22307727/ 28/ 1434/ 033-22303354
Fax: 033-22301721/ 2231 2700
Email: ciier@cii.in
Reach us via our Membership Helpline: 00-91-11-435 46244 / 00-91-99104 46244
23      16th Annual Global CEO Survey - The view from IndiaAbout PwC India
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms 
in 158 countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, 
tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, 
Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s 
service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a sepa -
rate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
       youtube.com/pwc
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoop -
ers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publica -
tion represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice 
before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any 
responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company 
in India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
MS 475 - March 2013 MSME.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
