Title: pwc_innovation-in-fmcg
Date Published: 2013-02-18 12:12:06+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_innovation-in-fmcg.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

The Indian FMCG sector
The innovation imperative
February 2013  
What do the Asian and Indian FMCG markets look like?  p2/Defining innovation  p3/The FMCG innovation imperative p4/
How does FMCG innovation differ between China and India? p7/Concluding commentsp8
2 PwCWhat do the Asian and Indian FMCG markets look like? 
Rising incomes, escalating demand, new products: FMCG perspectives in Asia, including India
Selected FMCG trends in Asia*
Soaps and cleansers: Market 
demand growth (% change pa) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Asia and Australasia 5.9 7.0 5.9 5.8 5.3 
China 12.0 12.7 9.7 9.3 7.3 
Hong Kong 8.6 6.8 3.7 3.4 3.0 
India 11.1 9.9 10.5 9.8 9.8 
Japan -0.6 2.4 1.5 1.4 1.0 
Food, beverages, tobacco: Market 
demand growth (% change pa) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 
Asia and Australasia 3.0 2.8 3.6 3.3 2.7 
China 4.2 2.8 1.6 1.4 1.0 
Hong Kong 5.1 4.6 5.1 4.6 4.7 
India -0.5 1.6 0.9 0.7 0.4 
Japan 2.7 2.7 1.9 2.3 2.3 
*Source: PwC’s 2012 Outlook for the Retail and Consumer Products Sector in Asia Asia’s FMCG market India’s FMCG market
Selected FMCG Trends in India
Source: PwC analysis
3Defining innovation
Different innovation types exist to serve different objectives: Breakthrough and radical extend 
beyond the incremental
Incremental innovation 
• Small changes in existing products and services via improvements in technology 
or changes to the business model
• Typically 5 to 25% improvements in cost, performance or customer value (i.e. 
speed, value, price)
• Characterised as better, faster, cheaper products and services that do not drive 
above average revenue growth 
Breakthrough innovation
• Significant change to either the technologies or business models of a product or 
service 
• Based on entirely new components of technology or business model or new ways 
to organise and use existing components 
• Typically greater than 25% improvement in cost, performance or customer value 
• Significant new competitive advantages that drive higher than average revenue 
growth
Radical innovation
• Substantial changes to both technology and business model 
• New value to customer, new players in the value network and new technologies 
for making and delivering the product or service 
• New basis of competition in existing markets (e.g. new technology platform or 
cost basis)
• Or, creates entirely new markets that provide customers with new value
• Or, creates very high revenue growth ratesSource: PwC’s Innovation practice
Source: PwC’s Innovation practice
4 PwCInnovation is more than just launching new products The FMCG innovation imperative
Innovation is a wide concept which aside from creating, 
launching and marketing new products also includes 
improving shopping processes, providing consumers with 
a range of tools to purchase products as also ensuring that 
the entire organisation is focused on the singular goal of 
improving the customer’s overall experience. As Indian 
consumers become more global in their aspirations and 
desires, as they travel abroad and are exposed to global 
products, their appetite to consume products in their home 
market will only increase. To meet this demand, FMCG 
companies need to focus on R&D and innovation as a means 
to grow the business. At the same time, product lifecycles 
are shrinking, companies across categories (e g., consumer 
durables and electronics) are launching new products, and 
the pressure to market new products, quickly, is strong. 
Innovation is a survival tactic. 
Most FMCG CEOs believe that long-term demand and 
growth are significant in markets like India, Brazil, Russia, 
etc. In addition, the opportunity for FMCG products is large 
given that per capita consumption in India is lower than 
in most markets. The opportunity in terms of incremental 
penetration and consumption is present. Most FMCG brands 
are rushing to design, create, test and launch new products 
to capture the attention of Indian consumers. Source: PwC’s Innovation practice
5Health and wellness: A lifestyle change impacting the FMCG sector
FMCG brands focused on R&D and innovation as a means of 
growth have a culture that promotes using customer insights to 
create either the next generation of products or in some cases, 
new product categories. 
Not that creating the next ‘big thing’ is easy. According to a 
survey by Consumer Goods Technology  and Sopheon Corporation, 
obstacles to the successful development and launch of new 
consumer products can be found in the earliest stages of the 
innovation process. While most companies participating in 
the survey had little difficulty generating product ideas, less 
than 20% of those ideas resulted in products considered to be 
highly innovative. The remainder were product revisions, line 
extensions or promotional ideas and packaging changes. 
One area that we see global and local FMCG brands investing in is 
health and wellness. Health and wellness is a mega trend shaping 
consumer preferences and shopping habits and FMCG brands are 
listening. Leading global and Indian food and beverage brands 
have embraced this trend and are focused on creating new 
emerging brands in health and wellness.
According to the PwC-FICCI report Winds of change: the wellness 
consumer,  nutrition foods, beverages and supplements comprise a 
INR 145 billion to 150 billion market in India, growing at a CAGR 
of 10 to 12%. 
Health and wellness brands are based on several 
product propositions:
Positively impact the consumers’ overall health
Made with natural ingredients, no artificial preservatives
Contain less sugar, cholesterol, zero transfats, etc.
Dairy-based and contain cultures with health benefits 
Baked instead of being deep-fried
Infused with vitamins and nutrients
Help minimise or reduce cholesterol Product 
propositions in 
the FMCG food 
and beverage 
category: 
Good for you, 
healthier for you 
Source: PwC analysisSource: PwC-FICCI report Winds of change: the wellness consumer
6 PwCWhile there are several products targeted to urban Indian consumers, the sweet spot lies in 
serving the 700 million-strong group of consumers in rural India. 
Opportunities abound in India’s FMCG market given the high annual 
growth rates and low penetration levels, across categories. For some 
categories, such as home care and personal care products, urban and 
rural consumers will have the same purchase drivers:
• Personal care: “It makes me feel good to wear this lipstick,” “I buy 
skin cream to have soft skin,” etc.
• Home care: “It’s important to keep my home clean,” “I like to have a 
clean home since I am house-proud,” etc. 
That said, while FMCG marketers see the importance of  strengthening 
their presence in urban areas, many are turning to rural markets for 
the next wave of growth. FMCG marketers need to keep the following 
aspects in mind when serving rural consumers: 
• What are the right products that will appeal to this target group?
• How can the products be better marketed using the right 
communication platforms (e. g. self-help groups, plays, skits, etc.), 
etc. in order to tailor the key message?
• Which channels are the best to move products quickly (e.g. 
agricultural formats, online, m-commerce)? 
Our thought leadership report DNA model for inclusive financial 
services: Driving profitability  indicates that in order to build a model 
for a profitable business, banks have to become more inclusive in their 
approach towards consumers using the DNA model. We feel that this 
perspective is also valuable and applicable to India’s FMCG industry as 
consumer goods companies step up their efforts to serve this group of 
large and under-served consumers.D
Different DNA
N
New structures 
and
new products   
A
Align  
partnerships  Invest resources in devising a USP that is 
innovative and radically different.
Don’t approach under-served consumers in 
the same way you would approach target 
consumers: their needs vary!
 
Offer under-served consumers a product 
which is new and transformational.
Determine the best way to source, create, 
procure, partner with and deliver the product 
to under-served consumers.
Create strong distribution networks and skills to 
deliver to the last mile.
Enter into partnerships that help you reach your 
market, such as those with farmers, self-help 
groups, microfinance, NGOs, etc.
Source: PwC’s DNA model for inclusive financial services: Driving 
profitability, PwC analysis 
7China vs India: In which market are FMCG brands more innovative? How does FMCG innovation differ between China and India? 
Innovation in China is occurring both in the B2B as well as the B2C sphere.  
Most Chinese companies believe that innovation is critical to the following:
• The ability to compete in overseas markets
• The longevity and continued growth of the company
• Remaining competitive and surviving market forces
Related to producing innovative products is how to best retail them to 
consumers. PwC’s research of online shoppers globally suggests that 
Chinese consumers are willing to use the online channel as a means to 
research and buy from. This is a valuable insight that companies serving 
this market need to keep in mind, as they look at being innovative in not 
only the products they offer but how they’re offered. PwC’s Demystifying the 
online shopper: 10 myths of multichannel retailing,  a survey of 11,000 online 
interviews across 11 countries, reveals the following: 
• Demographically, China’s online consumers are the youngest and 
most employed (i.e Chinese consumers are young and relatively 
a f fl u e n t  a s  c o m p a r e d  t o  o n l i n e  s h o p p e r s  i n  d e v e l o p e d  m a r k e t s  w h o                                                                                                                                    
are aging and have shrinking purchasing power)• Chinese consumers have adopted the internet as a retail channel earlier 
than their global peers
• Chinese consumers shop online more frequently than the global average
• Chinese shoppers are ahead of the curve when it comes to using new 
devices and social media 
*Source: PwC’s  Demystifying the online shopper: 10 myths of multichannel retailing
Sample: Global: 11,067 online shoppers, China: 900 online shoppers Note: Respondents who say they are shopping daily, weekly, monthly or less than once 
a month. Sample: Global: 11,067 online shoppers, China: 900 online shoppers
8 PwCPerspectives in FMCG innovation Concluding comments 
FMCG CEOs’ challenges: Acquiring companies and stretch goals will only get my organisation so far…
• How do I get my team to think about the next big game-changing innovation?
• Should I set up an R&D lab/innovation cell? How much funding should I allocate to it? How do I identify and hire the best talent ?
• Do I need to reshape the organisational culture so that we encourage breakthrough ideas and thinking, without instilling a fear of failure?
• Are my priorities for innovation and development clear?
• What kind of time to markets are reasonable for a large innovation?
• Do I need to convince the board of how imperative it is to focus on innovation? What kind of a budget do I have?
• What are the current pain points in time to market and how do I reduce these? 
Source: PwC analysis
India’s FMCG market is mature, competitive, and crowded with local and global brands. In this 
market, innovation is critical for:
Market • Remaining competitive
• Generating new avenues for sales and profits 
• Driving growth by entering new categories through relevant innovation
• Increasing market share and moving towards market dominance positions in:
 -Brand share
 -Overall FMCG market share
 -Category share
• Growing product and category penetration 
Consumer • Creating products that match consumers’ evolving tastes, preferences and needs
• Reaching new customers
• Growing the share of wallet from current customers
Product • Launching new products and keeping the product portfolio fresh
Channel • Leveraging new distribution channels to boost revenue and penetration  (e g. social 
media, multichannel, omnichannel) 
Source: PwC analysis Source: NielsenDid you know that FMCG brand extensions…
www.pwc.in
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India), 
which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
MS 455 - February 2013 IT-T&l.indd 
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, IndiaAbout PwC
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for.  We’re a network of firms in 158 
countries with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory 
services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi 
NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune.  For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please 
visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal 
entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
   facebook.com/PwCIndia 
   twitter.com/PwC_IN
  linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
       youtube.com/pwc
