Title: Impact on MNCs: Budget allocation and tax policy implications
Date Published: 2025-02-02 23:12:42+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_impact-on-mncs-budget-allocation-and-tax-policy-implications.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

India Budget 2025
Impact on MNCs in India
February 2025
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India2
Preface
On 1 February, the finance minister presented 
the first full budget of Modi Government 3.0. 
Towards its vision of Viksit Bharat (Developed 
India), the government identifies agriculture, 
micro, small and medium enterprises, 
investment, and exports at the macro level 
as its four powerful ‘engines’, with reforms as 
its ‘fuel’ and inclusivity as its guiding spirit. 
The budget focuses on various development 
measures, including boosting manufacturing, 
furthering ‘Make in India’, enabling 
employment-led development, investing in 
people, the economy and innovation, securing 
energy supplies, promoting exports, and 
nurturing innovation. The budget also aims 
to initiate transformative reforms across six 
domains, including taxation, the power sector, 
urban development, mining, the financial 
sector and regulatory reforms.
The big news in tax is the proposed 
introduction of a new and simplified tax 
law, a draft of which is to be shared in the 
next few days. The other themes in the tax 
proposals include supporting domestic manufacturing and value addition, promoting 
exports, encouraging voluntary compliance 
and ensuring ease of doing business amongst 
others. However, there is no mention about the 
introduction of Pillar-Two rules in response to 
the global tax reforms. It seems that the Indian 
Government is adopting a ‘wait and watch 
approach’ on this front.
The budget proposals were tabled in the 
Parliament on 1 February. After due debate and 
discussions in the Parliament, the budget, with 
any other amendments that may be required 
based on the process in the Parliament, is to 
be legislated and become law with effect from 
1 April 2025, or from other relevant dates for 
specific proposals. 
While the budget includes numerous tax 
amendments and changes, which of the budget 
proposals impact you, as a multinational 
corporation (MNC), in doing business with 
Indian third-party customers or dealing with 
your Indian subsidiaries and affiliates? We 
present a concise summary of these key 
changes for your reference.
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India3
Doing business with India
There is no change in the headline income-tax 
rate for foreign and Indian companies.No change in the headline tax rate 
for foreign or Indian companies 
Customs duty ratesTax rates 
The proposed changes in Customs duty 
rates are strategically aligned with the 
Make in India initiative, aiming to bolster 
domestic manufacturing and promote local 
value addition. The overarching theme is to 
award duty concessions on the import of 
capital goods and raw materials meant for 
manufacturing in India, and to introduce duty 
hikes on the import of finished goods. Certain 
notable duty rationalisation measures revolve 
around the following:•	Capital goods for the production  of lithium-
ion batteries for electric vehicles and mobile 
phones
•	Solar modules, other semiconductor devices 
and photovoltaic cells for use in renewable 
energy
•	Formulations used in the production of life-
saving drugs or medicines 
Another notable change is proposed in the tariff 
slabs. The Indian Customs Tariff had as many 
as 22 duty slabs until last year. The government 
reduced the duty slabs to 14 in the last Union 
Budget, which is now further reduced to only 
eight slabs. 
Overall, the duty rationalisation measures aim 
at not only augmenting local value addition in 
India but also strategically placing India in the 
emerging global geo-economics.
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India4
India’s current tax law was introduced way back in 1961, and it was largely modelled on a 1922 law. 
The current tax legislation is a comprehensive piece of legislation that includes 298 sections across 
23 chapters. Over the decades, this legislation has been tweaked repeatedly to address the changing 
business paradigm, within the same overall construct that dates back almost a century. This has 
resulted in a complex law that creates ambiguity and uncertainty in the tax law, resulting in increased 
tax litigation. 
To address this, the government is working towards a new direct tax code (DTC). This effort to 
overhaul the income-tax law has been ongoing for several years. The journey began in 2009 when the 
then finance minister proposed the concept of a DTC. A draft of the DTC was unveiled in August 2009 
for public consultation, but it never saw the light of day. 
In 2017, the Modi Government revived the DTC and constituted a task force to draft new direct tax 
legislation. The task force submitted its report on direct tax reforms in 2019. This report was not 
made public nor was it implemented. However, it is believed that some parts of the proposals were 
incorporated in the law over the years through the annual budget-making process. 
This journey now seems close to culmination. The Modi Government 3.0, in its first  budget in July 
2024, announced that a new law is to be unveiled in six months. Consistent with this announcement, 
the finance minister again announced in her budget speech yesterday that a draft law is to be 
introduced in the next few days. 
The new DTC is expected to be clear and direct. The expanse of the law is also expected to be 
significantly shorter with only half of the present tax legislation, in terms of both chapters and words. 
It is proposed to be simple for taxpayers and administration to understand, leading to tax certainty 
and reduced litigation.
If the government delivers on these expectations, it would be a bold reform measure to create a 
simplified tax law with the potential to create a more transparent, efficient and business-friendly 
environment. 
We keenly await the draft law. It is also expected to be open for public consultation, and comments 
may be considered before being legislated. Introduction of the new simplified tax code 
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India5
Presumptive tax regime for 
non-residents providing 
technology or service 
to India’s electronics 
manufacturing Sector 
India has been making significant strides in 
positioning itself as a global hub for electronics 
system design and manufacturing. It has 
been the prime minister’s vision for India 
to become a global hub for semiconductor 
design, manufacturing and technology 
development. In line with this, the government 
has approved a comprehensive programme 
aimed at developing a robust ecosystem for 
semiconductors and display manufacturing. 
Under the programme, several schemes are 
introduced, including the production-linked 
incentive for large-scale electronics, Scheme 
for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic 
Components and Semiconductors, scheme for 
setting up semiconductor fabs in India and a 
design-linked incentive scheme. 
In furtherance of the same, it is proposed 
that non-residents providing technology or 
services to Indian resident companies that 
are establishing or operating electronics 
manufacturing or connected facilities for 
manufacturing or producing electronic goods, 
articles or things in India, under a government-
notified scheme, can opt for a presumptive 
taxation regime. The presumptive tax regime 
deems 25% of the receipts of the non-resident 
on account of providing services or technology 
as profits chargeable to tax. This is to result in 
effective tax payable at 8.75% (plus surcharge and cess) of the gross receipts. Non-residents 
opting for the presumptive tax regime cannot 
set-off any unabsorbed depreciation or brought 
forward losses for that year. The frequently-
asked questions further clarify that provision 
of technical personnel is also eligible for the 
regime.
There seem to be a few drafting aspects that 
may need to be addressed before the law is 
enacted. The provision suggests that the regime 
will be available for technology or services 
provided ‘in’ India. This can give rise to a debate 
on whether this covers services or technology 
provided from outside India; hence, this should 
be clarified. In addition, the amount eligible for 
the presumptive taxation regime is the amount 
paid or payable to or payable on behalf of a non-
resident ‘and’ the amount received or deemed 
to be received by or on behalf of the non-
resident. The use of ‘and’ can create confusion, 
since the same amount can be paid as well as 
received by a non-resident and hence lead to 
double counting. We hope that these issues are 
addressed in the final law.
In addition, the finance minister in her 
speech also mentioned that a safe harbor is 
to be provided for non-residents who store 
components in India for supply to specified 
electronics manufacturing units. Details of the 
same are not provided yet.
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India6International trade facilitation 
Indian Customs laws provide for provisional 
assessments of shipments wherever the 
Revenue authorities intend to seek further 
information from the importer, such as in 
the case of trade between related parties. 
The law does not prescribe any timelines 
for closure or finalisation of such provisional 
assessments. This creates ambiguity as the 
trade lacks certainty for several years until 
the assessment is finalised. The government 
has addressed this long-standing ask of 
the industry in this budget by prescribing 
a timeline of two years (extendable further 
by one year) to finalise such assessments, 
except in certain specified cases. It is 
also provided that for existing provisional 
assessments pending finalisation, the 
timeline of two years (extendable by one year) 
should start from the date of enactment of 
the budget proposals. Time-bound closure of provisional 
assessments
The government has introduced a facility 
for voluntary revision of import and export 
declarations post-clearance (except in certain 
specified cases such as those involving 
ongoing investigations, audits and re-
assessments). This provision allows businesses 
to either pay additional duty or seek a refund of 
duty, depending on the circumstances, without 
facing any punitive actions. This proposal  
is an example of the trust-based taxation  
regime the government has promoted. Trade facilitation has been an area of policy focus for the government for the past several 
years. Continuing with the agenda, the government proposes a few trade-friendly measures in 
international trade laws. 
Voluntary disclosure of material facts 
post-clearance
Having said so, the law does not clearly 
provide for the outcome where the Revenue 
authorities fail to finalise the assessment 
within the stipulated time period, i.e. whether 
the provisional assessment by the Revenue 
authorities is to be deemed to be finalised or the 
self-assessment made by the importer stands 
accepted. It is expected that the government will 
provide clarity on this issue in due course. 
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India7Ease of compliance and 
provision of certainty in TP
Currently, transfer-pricing (TP) audits are 
carried out every year along with the regular 
tax audit. The audit of each year in isolation 
puts constraints on the limited resources 
available with tax authorities, who then must 
complete many audits annually within a short 
time frame.
To streamline the process and provide an 
alternative to annual TP audits, the concept 
of block TP audits for a period of three years 
is proposed to permit multi-year arm’s-length 
price determination, at the option of the 
taxpayer. It is proposed that the arm’s-length 
price determined in relation to an international 
transaction or specified domestic transaction 
for a particular year (say Year 1) is to apply to 
similar transactions for two consecutive years 
(i.e. Years 2 and 3) immediately following the 
initial year (i.e. Year 1). 
While the form, manner and time limit to opt for 
block TP audits are yet to be prescribed, this 
rationalisation measure is intended to ease the 
compliance and administrative burden on both 
the taxpayers and tax authorities.Block audits
The primary objective of the existing TP safe 
harbour rules (SHR) is to reduce TP disputes 
and provide more certainty to taxpayers. 
However, in its current form, SHR has not 
generated much enthusiasm among taxpayers 
due to various factors, such as limited coverage, 
perceived high margins and low thresholds for 
eligibility.
Similar to the announcement in the last budget, 
the finance minister in this budget once 
again reiterated the government’s intention to 
expand the scope of the current SHR to reduce 
litigation and provide certainty in international 
taxation. While finer details on this proposal 
are still awaited, by rationalising the SHR, the 
government can usher in a more predictable 
and less litigious TP environment in India.Expanding the scope of SHR

PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India8Investing in India
The current government continues to focus on reinforcing the International Financial Services Centre 
(IFSC) framework to solidify India’s position as a prominent global financial hub. 
The budget proposes a range of reforms designed to bolster the financial services sector, with 
specific attention to areas such as retail funds, insurance, ship leasing and treasury centres. These 
measures aim to enhance efficiency, attract investments and stimulate economic growth while 
ensuring a robust regulatory environment.
With these comprehensive reforms, the finance minister aims to attract a diverse range of businesses 
to the IFSC, reinforcing India’s emergence as a formidable global financial hub and boosting investor 
confidence in the evolving financial landscape. A few key proposed incentives for the IFSC that may 
be relevant from the standpoint of MNCs are outlined below. Incentives to the GIFT IFSC: A game changer
The budget introduces a significant change for 
MNCs looking to set up treasury operations 
in India. Currently, any loans or advances 
given by a closely held company to its 
shareholders or group entities are taxed as 
‘deemed dividend’. The budget now proposes 
to exempt such advances and loans between 
global treasury centres (GTCs) in the IFSC and 
other group entities of listed foreign parents or 
principal entities from the purview of ‘deemed 
dividend’. Thus, it has made it much more 
attractive for MNCs to bring their treasury 
operations to the IFSC.One key agenda of the government for the 
past several years is to provide tax incentives 
to businesses commencing operations in the 
IFSC. This is subject to certain sunset clauses. 
It is now proposed to extend these sunset 
clauses for the commencement of operations 
of IFSC units to 31 March 2030. 
In addition, other measures for shipping and 
insurance are proposed. The proposals are 
transformative, significantly enhancing GIFT 
City’s appeal as a global financial hub. Relaxation from deemed dividend 
provisions for GTCs in IFSCExtension of sunset dates prescribed in 
various Indian law

PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India9Unveiling the new ‘India’
The budget has made a slew of policy announcements to accelerate the steady growth of last few 
years towards a ‘Viksit Bharat’. 
The government launched a fund of funds 
for start-ups in June 2016 with a corpus of 
INR100m. Under this scheme, the government 
provides capital to alternative investment 
funds, who in turn invest money in start-ups 
through equity and equity-linked instruments. 
With the support of this scheme, the alternative 
investment funds for start-ups have received 
commitments of more than INR910m. 
Following the success of this scheme, this 
budget proposes two different initiatives: 
(a) a new fund of funds for start-ups with an 
expanded scope and a fresh contribution of 
another INR100m and (b) a DeepTech fund of 
funds to encourage next-generation start-ups 
from technical and non-technical backgrounds. 
These initiatives are to help provide seed 
capital to start-ups through domestic 
funding and also accelerate innovation and 
technological advancements in India. 
The budget also proposes to extend the 
timelines to obtain a tax holiday for start-
ups by another five years; i.e. the tax benefit 
is now to be available for eligible start-ups 
incorporated on or before 1 April 2030. Global capability centres (GCCs) in India 
are significantly transforming the corporate 
landscape and influencing global business 
dynamics. These centres are focusing on 
next-generation technologies and establishing 
artificial-intelligence centres of excellence, 
which are expected to drive innovation and 
solidify India’s status as a global talent hub. 
To leverage this opportunity, the budget 
has announced the creation of a national 
framework for GCCs. This framework aims to 
enhance talent availability and infrastructure 
by suggesting building-byelaw reforms to 
streamline regulatory processes and create a 
business-friendly environment. It also proposes 
collaboration mechanisms between the 
government and industry to meet the evolving 
needs of GCCs through coordinated efforts. By 
addressing these critical areas, the framework 
seeks to strengthen GCC capabilities; promote 
regional economic development, particularly 
in tier-2 cities; and reduce migration pressures 
on urban areas. This strategic initiative is 
expected to attract international investments, 
stimulate innovation and reinforce India’s 
position as a global talent hub, contributing 
to the sustainable development of the GCC 
ecosystem in the country.Start-ups GCCs
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India10
In a significant move to bolster the country’s 
manufacturing sector, the government has 
announced the establishment of a National 
Manufacturing Mission. This initiative is 
designed to accelerate the goals of the ‘Make 
in India’ campaign, aiming to transform 
India into a global manufacturing hub. The 
mission encompasses small, medium and 
large industries and focuses on providing 
comprehensive support across multiple 
dimensions, including policy frameworks, 
execution roadmaps and governance 
mechanisms. The mission ensures the creation 
of an enabling environment that facilitates 
business growth, attracts investment and 
drives innovation across the manufacturing 
ecosystem.
The mission’s mandate focuses on five key 
areas to improve the ease and cost of doing 
business; build a future-ready workforce; 
foster a vibrant and dynamic micro, small 
and medium enterprises sector; prioritise 
the availability of cutting-edge technology; 
and ensure the production of high-quality CleanTech manufacturing is driven by the 
need to address environmental challenges 
and the global shift towards sustainable 
development. The Indian Government has 
floated various schemes such as the National 
Solar Mission, National Electric Mobility 
Mission Plan, National Clean Energy Fund 
and production-linked incentive schemes. 
Continuing its path to foster a greener and 
more sustainable future for the country, the 
budget prioritises CleanTech manufacturing, 
targeting the production of solar photovoltaic 
cells, electric-vehicle batteries, motors and 
controllers, electrolysers, wind turbines, high-
voltage transmission equipment and grid-scale 
batteries. These measures collectively aim 
to drive economic growth while fostering a 
sustainable and innovative industrial landscape 
in India.Make in India
CleanTech manufacturingproducts. With strong policy support and a 
clear execution framework, the mission is to 
play a pivotal role in driving sustainable growth 
and creating a competitive edge for India in the 
global marketplace.
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India11
Mergers and amalgamations historically require a very time-consuming court approval process. With 
the enactment of the Companies Act, 2013, the concept of fact-track merger was introduced for the 
merger between a holding company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. In 2021, to promote start-up 
companies, the ambit of fast-track merger was extended to include the merger between two or more 
start-up companies and between one or more start-up company with one or more small company. 
As a next step, the budget proposes widening the scope of fast-track mergers and simplification of 
the existing company merger process, which is to result in speedy approvals and integration, realise 
synergies faster, and reduce legal and administrative costs.
The budget proposes to set up a High-Level 
Committee for Regulatory Reforms for a 
review of all non-financial sector regulations, 
certifications, licences and permissions. The 
aim is to strengthen trust-based economic 
governance and take transformational 
measures to enhance ‘ease of doing business’, 
especially in matters of inspections and 
compliances.
In addition, significant announcements are 
made to increase foreign-direct investment 
to 100% in insurance (subject to some 
conditions) and measures aimed to make India 
a global hub for toy manufacturing.
All the above steps are poised to create a 
more conducive environment for business 
operations and foreign investments. With the 
objectives of accelerating growth, securing 
inclusive development, invigorating private 
sector investments, uplifting household 
sentiments and enhancing the spending power 
of India’s rising middle class at its core, Budget 
2025 has not just attempted but possibly 
accelerated the path to ‘Viksit Bharat’. The 
measures are nearly all-encompassing (from 
the standpoint of sectors, demographics, etc.) 
and promise to ensure India’s growth story 
follows only a skyward progression.Mergers and amalgamations
Regulatory reforms
PwC  |  India Budget 2025 - Impact on MNCs in India12In summary
The budget proposals continue the theme of tax simplification, certainty and clarity, with a focus on 
encouraging voluntary compliance and reducing tax compliance. These have been the government’s 
focus to provide the industry with a more tax-friendly environment—which has been the constant 
ask. Measures are also announced to attract investment and promote several focus sectors, 
including domestic manufacturing.
The finance minister has identified taxation as one of the domains of transformational reforms. 
This is very positive, and we hope that reforms will be implemented in all areas, including policy, 
compliances, systems, dispute resolution and tax administration, to provide a regime with easy 
compliance that provides certainty and a taxpayer-friendly approach. Against this backdrop, the DTC 
is awaited eagerly as it may set the tone for these reforms. 

About PwC
pwc.in
Data Classification: DC0 (Public)
In this document, PwC refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in India having Corporate Identity Number or CIN 
: U74140WB1983PTC036093), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a 
separate legal entity.
This document does not constitute professional advice. The information in this document has been obtained or derived from sources believed by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any 
opinions or estimates contained in this document represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of 
this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, 
based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or liability to any reader of this publication in respect 
of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2025 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved.
PS/February 2025 - M&CAt PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important problems. We’re a network of firms in 
151 countries with over 360,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, advisory and 
tax services.  
Find out more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at www.pwc.com.
PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal 
entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details.
© 2025 PwC. All rights reserved.
Vivek Prasad
vivek.prasad@pwc.com
Gautam Mehra
gautam.mehra@pwc.comContact us
