Title: Socio-economic impact of mHealth: An assessment report for the European Union
Date Published: 2013-06-24 02:31:53-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_socio-economic-impact-of-mhealth-the-european-union.pdf

--- CONTENT ---

Socio-economic  
impact of mHealth
An assessment report for 
the European Union
www.pwc.in
June 2013
Executive summary Pg 3 | Socio-economic impact of mHealth Pg 6 
Overcoming barriers to adoption Pg 20 | Appendices Pg 25

PwC2This report was commissioned by the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programme.
Socio-economic impact of mHealth3Chapter 1
Source: PwC analysismHealth could save 99 billion EUR in healthcare costs in the 
European Union (EU) and add 93 billion EUR to the EU GDP  
in 2017 if its adoption is encouraged.
EU healthcare systems face significant challenges that are creating concerns 
about the sustainability of healthcare delivery. The combination of increased 
prevalence of chronic disease and an ageing population that continues to grow 
is exacerbating the burden on healthcare delivery and costs across multiple 
EU member states. Furthermore, well publicised budgetary constraints and a 
shortage of healthcare resources have created a scenario that inhibits these EU 
member states from meeting this increased healthcare demand. At the same 
time, the EU recognises the acute importance of investing in healthcare to tackle 
these challenges. Various stakeholders in the EU are looking at ways to make 
healthcare systems more sustainable and improve their citizens’ health. This will 
improve wellbeing, increase employability and reduce health inequality.99 bn
Total healthcare  
cost savings in 201793 bn
Total GDP addition 
in 2017Public  
savings  
(77%)Private  
savings  
(23%)
76 bn23 bnExecutive summary
PwC 4Potential of mHealth
To address these challenges, EU 
healthcare systems are moving care 
for chronic conditions and ageing 
population from hospitals to community 
homes. There is an increasing focus 
on making care more patient-centric 
so that patients can be empowered 
to manage their care. With mobile 
technologies becoming pervasive 
across the continent, mobile solutions 
are beginning to support these new 
healthcare delivery solutions. These 
mHealth solutions can influence patient 
behaviour to improve lifestyles, enable 
remote treatment of chronic conditions 
and equip healthcare providers to make 
better clinical decisions. As a result, 
patients can stay healthier and resources 
can be better utilised, whilst also 
limiting the demand for healthcare and 
lowering the costs of care. 
By using mHealth solutions to their 
potential, healthcare systems in the  
EU can achieve the following:
•	 Save 99 billion EUR in total annual 
healthcare spend in 2017 after the 
cost of extra workforce to support 
mHealth. 
•	 These savings will translate to 76 
billion EUR of public expenditure 
and 23 billion EUR of private 
expenditure.
•	 This equates to treatment of an 
additional 24.5 million patients 
against a constant number of 
doctors and facilities.
•	 Help 185 million patients lead 
healthier lives and gain 158,000 
years of life.
•	 Of the total 185 million patients 
who can potentially benefit from 
mHealth, 141 million patients could 
improve their lifestyle to some 
extent through improving how they 
manage their medical conditions.
•	 Of these 141 million patients, 61 
million could successfully address 
one or more lifestyle disorders. 
Another 54 million could avoid 
the risk of developing them and a 
further 26 million patients, who 
are ageing, could become more 
involved in managing their care and 
lifestyles.By the virtue of its benefits, mHealth 
could enable 11.2 million chronic 
patients and 6.9 million patients at risk 
of developing chronic diseases to extend 
their professional lives and improve 
their productivity . This would add 93 
billion EUR to the EU GDP in 2017.99 bn
Total healthcare  
cost savings 
Wellness and 
preventionDiagnosis Treatment and 
monitoringCost savings  
in ADEWorkforce to 
support mHealth69 bn 3.7 bn 32 bn 0.17 bn - 6.2 bn
185 mn
Total mHealth users 
that could benefit
Patients that could 
improve their  
lifestylesChronic patients that 
could benefit from 
enhanced wellness 
and preventionChronic and  
ageing population 
that could benefit 
from treatment and 
monitoring141 mn 22.57 mn 20 mn
Patients that 
could expedite 
diagnosis0.84 mn
Patients with one 
or more lifestyle 
disordersPatients at risk of 
developing lifestyle 
disordersAgeing population61 mn 54 mn 26 mn
Source: PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth5Socio–economic impact 
of mHealth in 2017 100% 
adoption  
(full 
potential )10% 
adoption  
(if no 
action 
taken)
Total healthcare cost 
saved (bn EUR)99 6.6
Public care cost saved 
(bn EUR)76 5.1
Private care cost saved 
(bn EUR)23 1.5
GDP added (bn EUR) 93 6.5 Barriers to adoption and their 
impactOvercoming the barriers
Since the mHealth ecosystem has a 
broad set of stakeholders and most 
mHealth benefits are systemic, the onus 
lies on the regulators and payers to 
maximise the potential of mHealth by 
quickly intervening with regulations, 
incentives and initiatives that encourage 
its adoption and use. 
The following key actions and initiatives 
could help drive the adoption of 
mHealth:
•	 Integration of mHealth with the 
nationwide healthcare strategy of 
various EU member states to align 
the development of these solutions 
with their most relevant healthcare 
priorities.
•	 Creation of policies and frameworks 
that encourage the development of 
innovative mHealth solutions and 
harmonise the regulation between 
the delivery of healthcare and 
mobile health services.Source: PwC analysis
Although initial estimates of mHealth 
benefits provided by ongoing mHealth 
pilots and expert opinion have been 
promising, there is a strong possibility 
that these potential benefits will be 
limited, if the adoption of mHealth is 
not encouraged. Multiple barriers, such 
as regulatory, economic, structural and 
technological, are limiting the adoption 
of mHealth. The need of harmonisation 
between health and mobile regulatory 
frameworks, the lack of incentives to 
healthcare providers towards mHealth 
solutions and the absence of clearly 
defined business models aggravate the 
slow adoption of mHealth solutions. 
These barriers could limit the adoption 
of mHealth solutions to only 10% of its 
2017 potential, realising only about 5% 
of the potential benefits by 2017.
•	 Creation of incentives that 
encourage, both, patients and 
healthcare providers to adopt 
mHealth solutions, and mandate 
greater cohesion of healthcare 
providers across levels and regions.
•	 Spreading of awareness and 
provision of education on mHealth 
for healthcare professionals, 
patients and consumers.
The effective implementation of these 
recommendations needs collaboration 
amongst stakeholders. Since 
regulators and payers can facilitate this 
collaboration, urgency on their part to 
act is essential. It will help ensure that 
the potential benefits of mHealth are 
not pushed out too far to be inadequate 
in addressing the current and future 
healthcare challenges in the EU. 
Socio-economic  
impact of mHealth
still greater than ever. Steadily rising 
healthcare costs amidst a stressful 
economic environment in the EU are 
constraining the healthcare systems of 
its member states. 
1On an average, EU member states 
spend 9% of their GDP on health. These 
healthcare expenses have been rising 
faster than national incomes in most 
member states, making it harder for the 
social contributions to cover them. 
1According to a report by the 
EU Economic Policy Committee, 
healthcare costs could increase by 4 
to 8% of the EU GDP in a few decades, 
widening the gap between national 
incomes and healthcare spend. 
To address the current gap, healthcare 
budgets are being cut across many 
countries including Germany, Italy and 
Spain. The out-of-pocket contribution 
of people to health expenses is growing 
and considerable concerns around the 
sustainability of universal healthcare 
systems are emerging.
1 Source: EU Economic Policy Committee study on 
budgetary challenges posed by ageing populations 
(http://198.170.119.137/gen-economics.htm)The growing healthcare burden of chronic 
patients and ageing population
Chronic diseases such as Type 2 Diabetes 
Mellitus (T2DM), chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disorder (COPD) and 
cardiovascular diseases (CVD) create 
a significant burden on EU’s already 
strained healthcare systems. 2According 
to the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD), 
there were around 30 million people 
living with diabetes (Type 1 and Type 
2) in the EU in 2011 and 3about 10% of 
the total annual healthcare expenses 
in the EU are spent on diabetes (Type 1 
and Type 2). Poorly managed diabetes 
and the complications it induces result 
in significantly high hospital admissions, 
increasing the cost of care and 
consumption of healthcare resources. 
The prevalence of such chronic diseases 
is high and increasing. Prevention and 
better management of chronic diseases 
should therefore be a priority for the EU 
and its member states. 
Chronic diseases could lead to 718 
billion EUR in lost wages in 2017 .
Besides the significant healthcare 
burden, chronic diseases also pose 
a severe risk to the quality of life 
and productivity of patients. High EU healthcare spend per capita (EUR)
Public expenditure, OPE and non-OPE  
(EUR per capita)
Source: The World Bank, PwC analysis2.1 Current healthcare 
challenges in the EU
Sustaining healthcare systems
Rising healthcare costs in the EU need to 
be lowered in order to limit the burden 
on the population and payers.
Although health advancements made 
across the EU are reflected in the 
increased life expectancy and adoption 
of the latest technologies, the challenge 
that health poses to governments is 
Source: The World Bank, PwC analysisChapter 2
1 Source: EU Economic Policy Committee study on budgetary challenges posed by ageing populations (http://europa.eu/epc/working_groups/ageing_en.htm)
2 Source: OECD Health at a glance: Europe 2012
3	 Source:	IDF,	LSE,	GOLD	report	on	COPD	(http://www.goldcopd.org/uploads/users/files/GOLDReport_April112011.pdf)20011,1842,710
20112.3x
20019092,088
189442
85 182
2011
Socio-economic impact of mHealth7
EU population with chronic conditions
Source: OECD Health at a glance- 2012, PwC analysis
DALY (Disability Adjusted Life Years) 
losses from these diseases make early 
retirements and higher-than-normal 
unpaid absenteeism common for chronic 
patients. 4 The resultant loss of work life 
and wages is significant. 
According to PwC estimates, by 2017, 
around 70 million chronic patients 
could lose up to 718 billion EUR in 
wages due to around 60 billion work 
hours lost in absenteeism and early 
retirement. Socio–economic 
impact of chronic 
diseases in 2017 T2DM COPD CVD
5 Absenteeism (days 
per year) per patient42 19 47
6 Early retirement per 
patient (years)1.2 6.7 3
Labour hours lost (bn) 15 34 11
Wages lost (bn EUR) 194 403 121
Source: PwC analysis 
This potential loss of wages would 
aggravate the financial strain on the 
healthcare systems by limiting the 
social security contributions that fund 
the healthcare budgets, limiting the 
financial sustainability of healthcare 
delivery. 
The ageing EU population, aged 
65 years or above, also contributes 
significantly to the healthcare burden 
since they require medical attention 
more often and many of them, such as 
chronic patients, need continuous care 
due to the multiple health conditions 
they suffer from at the same time.
•	7According to the EU Economic 
Policy Committee, 30% to 40% of 
EU’s healthcare expenses are spent 
on people aged 65 years or above. •	 The share of this group in the 
overall population is expected to 
rise from 17% in 2010 to 30% in 
2060. Additionally, the care costs 
for ageing population could rise 
by 30% to 55% by 2025 from 2010 
levels. 
•	8By 2050, there will be only two 
people working for every person 
above 65 years of age in the EU 
from the four in 2004, which may 
make it harder for the working 
population to support these rising 
healthcare costs.
9With only 3% of healthcare expenses 
in the EU being allocated to prevention, 
there is clearly scope to invest more 
in the prevention of chronic diseases 
and avoid the significant costs these 
diseases generate. In addition, both, 
chronic patients and the elderly patients 
have a significant role in ensuring 
that their wellbeing is maintained 
and complications can be avoided. By 
using secondary preventive methods, 
chronic and elderly patients can manage 
their diseases better and reduce their 
severity, thereby limiting the associated 
healthcare costs.
4 Source: LSE Health, London School of Economics, Investing in Health (http://ec.europa.eu/health/strategy/policy/index_en.htm)
5	 Source:	LSE	Health,	London	School	of	Economics,	Netherlands	Expert	Centre	for	Work-related	Respiratory	Disorders	,	http://www.bmj.sk/2010/11110-02.pdf,	
6 Source: LSE Health, London School of Economics, Department of Health UK, www.efanet.org/wp-content/documents/FletcherEUEdinburgh.pptx
7 Source: EU Economic Policy Committee study on budgetary challenges posed by ageing populations http://europa.eu/epc/working_groups/ageing_en.htm
8 Source: EU Economic Policy Committee study on budgetary challenges posed by ageing populations http://europa.eu/epc/working_groups/ageing_en.htm
9 Source: EU Health 2020 visionT2DM COPD CVD Ageing 
population 
(>65 years)28 30
12.915.2232694952012
2017
Growing prevalence of unhealthy lifestyles
Unhealthy lifestyles such as poor dietary 
and physical regimes and smoking 
lead to disorders such as obesity and 
hypertension. These disorders in turn 
are leading causes of chronic diseases 
such as T2DM, COPD and CVD. 
10Around 52% of the EU population is 
overweight, 17% of which is obese. 
With more than 300 million people who 
are smokers, obese or hypertensive, 
there is a significant portion of the 
population that is at the risk of 
developing chronic diseases. To limit 
the future healthcare burden, it will be 
as important to prevent and manage 
the lifestyle disorders as the chronic 
diseases.
The shortage of healthcare professional 
resources and its impact on access to care
Many EU member states are concerned 
about current or future shortages of 
doctors and nurses. 11Switzerland could 
see 75% of their general practitioners 
retire by 2025 while Germany may have 
to replace more than 50,000 doctors, 
including around 23,000 GPs, by only 
2020. This lack of resources creates a 
risk of reduction in access to primary 
care and an inefficient utilisation of the 
limited healthcare budgets.
 Need to enhance effectiveness and 
efficiency of healthcare delivery
To limit the healthcare burden of 
chronic diseases and elderly care, 
many healthcare systems in the EU are 
focusing on empowering patients to 
manage their conditions better and more 
independently. They are moving chronic 
care outside of hospitals to community 
care settings. However, the shortage of 
doctors and nurses is also contributing 
to a growing focus on increasing patient-
centricity, which encourages patients 
to proactively manage their health and 
collaborate more with the healthcare 
provider even when outside the hospital. solution pathways from wellness to 
monitoring by positively influencing 
patient behaviour, making care more 
patient-centric and improving clinical 
outcomes. Healthcare delivery can also 
be made more efficient by lowering 
the cost of treatment due to the need 
for fewer hospitalisations and through 
enabling current resources to treat many 
more patients in parallel.
As aforesaid, enabling remote treatment 
and monitoring, mHealth solutions can 
help shift care for chronic and ageing 
patients from hospitals and community 
care settings to their homes, thereby 
providing patients with greater access 
to healthcare resources remotely. 
Furthermore, remote interactions 
and reminders to take medication 
can increase dietary and treatment 
compliance levels. Complications can, 
therefore, be avoided and treatment 
costs reduced. The reduction in need 
for hospitalisation can free up physical 
and human healthcare resources to treat 
additional patients.Increasing the patient-centricity of care 
could move delivery of care outside 
hospitals and make patients more 
responsible for their health, limiting 
the healthcare burden and freeing up 
healthcare resources.
To attain these objectives together, 
the healthcare systems in the EU 
would need to leverage technologies 
or solutions that help patients adopt 
behaviours to prevent diseases, optimise 
the quality of care, lower its costs and 
keep patients and doctors remotely 
connected to each other.
2.2 Addressing the challenges 
through mHealth solutions
mHealth solutions help prevent diseases 
and promote health, while lowering the 
cost of care and freeing up resources for 
additional patients that may not have 
adequate access to healthcare.
With mobile technologies becoming 
more widespread, mHealth solutions 
can increase the effectiveness of 
healthcare delivery across all patient 
10 Source: OECD Health at a glance: Europe 2012
11	Source:	Remedy	presented	to	cure	doctor	shortage(	www.swissinfo.ch),	German	Medical	Association	(BÄK)	-	National	Association	of	Statutory	
Health Insurance Physicians (KBV) study (http://www.thelocal.de/society/20100903-29587.html#.UY-ylLXDA9Y) 

Socio-economic impact of mHealth9In addition to this, mHealth solutions 
can empower citizens with information 
and motivation to improve lifestyles 
and reduce the threat of chronic 
diseases. Effectively, due to the various 
benefits mHealth provides, it may be 
highly useful in galvanising healthcare 
systems to attain their objectives and 
empowering patients cost-effectively.
Assessing the socio-economic impact of 
mHealth
mHealth can create a socio-economic 
impact across four dimensions by 
improving the effectiveness and 
efficiency of care.
Covering a wider population, mHealth 
can help people receive a higher quality 
of care at lower costs. By improving 
the delivery of healthcare across the 
four dimensions listed below, mHealth 
solutions can reduce hospitalisations, 
enable healthier lives and create a more 
productive employee base, facilitating a 
significant socio-economic impact:
•	 Wellness and prevention: 
Supporting citizens in making lives 
healthier by improving lifestyles and reducing the incidence of disease 
through education, awareness and 
behavioral changes.
•	 Diagnosis: Expediting the diagnosis 
of chronic diseases in order to 
limit their severity and associated 
treatment costs.
•	 Treatment and monitoring:  
Administering care remotely 
through mobile-based 
communication technologies that 
support patient mobility and reduce 
the need to visit hospitals.
•	 Stronger healthcare systems:  
Enhancing clinical decision-making 
and improving the utilisation of 
physical and human healthcare 
resources by providing the system 
and staff more information and 
analysis.
In this report, we have quantified the 
health benefits that mHealth solutions 
can provide across the four dimensions 
discussed above by using initial 
outputs from relevant studies and their 
validation by healthcare experts in 
relevant geographies. While we have 
referenced these inputs throughout the report, the methodology and 
assumptions for quantifying the impact 
have been detailed in the appendices.
2.2.1 Enhancing wellness and 
prevention
 The significance of healthier lifestyles
The lack of education and information 
on the importance of wellness and 
prevention can keep 39.9 million people 
exposed to the risk of developing chronic 
diseases due to unhealthy lifestyles.
12According to expert opinion, an 
improvement in wellbeing effected 
through a healthy diet and regular 
exercise can reduce the risk of 
developing a chronic disease by 50% to 
73% depending on the type of disease. 
With 39.9 million people expected to 
be at severe risk of developing T2DM, 
COPD and CVD in 2017, enhanced 
wellness can ensure disease free lives for 
some of these patients.
“Mobile health 
has the potential 
to deliver larger 
benefits than 
tele-health as it is 
more accessible 
than tele-health.” 
Horst Merkle,  
Roche Diagnostics
12	Source:	IDF,	LSE,	GOLD	report	on	COPD	(http://www.goldcopd.org/uploads/users/files/GOLDReport_April112011.pdf)
PwC10
Population at risk of developing chronic conditions in the EU (in mn) Lifestyle disorder prevalence in EU (in mn)
Source: JAMA Internal Medicine, Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group, Turner White, OECD Health at a Glance- 2012, Silverchain.org, PwC analysis
13 Source: http://ndep.nih.gov/media/gp_toolkit.pdf34% 8% 32%
of obese people benefit 
from self-directed 
weight loss program 
and counsellingof smokers quit 
smoking successfully 
if constantly motivated 
and remindedof hypertensive 
population can benefit 
from regular tracking of 
their blood pressure60% 73% 50%
 of potential diabetics 
can avoid T2DM 
through healthy diet 
and exerciseof people at risk of 
COPD can avoid it 
through improved diet 
and fitnessof people at risk of 
CVD can avoid it 
through improved 
wellbeingImprovement of lifestyles could lower 
the severity of chronic diseases for 70 
million patients by 2017 .
Regular exercise and a healthy diet can 
reduce the chance of T2DM patients 
developing complications by 13around 
30% while half of the CVD patients 
may be able to avoid complications and 
hospitalisations. By 2017, improvement 
in lifestyles across the 70 million 
plus chronic patients in the EU can 
significantly reduce the healthcare 
burden and costs. Inducing healthier lifestyles using 
mHealth solutions
mHealth can enable such lifestyle 
improvements by equipping patients 
with relevant information on their 
mobile devices, thereby helping them 
make improved and informed lifestyle 
choices. mHealth solutions that focus 
on wellness and prevention can help 
them make better decisions about 
simple aspects of their lifestyle such 
as the food to eat, ways to counter 
the urge to smoke, and the number 
of steps to walk. A key reason for the 
reluctance to manage one’s lifestyle 
better is lack of self-motivation and 
adherence. Interactive, self-directed 
mHealth solutions can motivate patients 
to improve their lifestyle by developing a 
game-like mindset in attaining everyday 
fitness goals. 
Healthcare providers can help ageing 
patients manage their care better by 
encouraging them to use mHealth 
solutions that involve them in 
maintaining wellness. These mHealth 
solutions enable patients to store 
their test results, readings of health 
parameters and the curative measures 
they take. Doctors can use the patient’s 
health history built over time to make 
the treatment more patient-centric  
and effective. “Finding a doctor or 
finding information is 
not so much a challenge. 
The major challenges 
are self-motivation and 
adherence. I think this 
is one of the major op -
portunities for mobile 
health where we can 
work with patients or 
users.” 
Bastian Hauck, Founder,  
Team Blood Glucose
Obesity
Smoking
HypertensionT2DM
COPD
CVD
201258 60104 102302 306
2017 201218.118.6
3.3 3.716.117.6
2017
Socio-economic impact of mHealth11
Chronic disease prevalence in EU (in mn)
Source: National Institutes of Health’s Diabetes Prevention Programme, Silverchain.org, Eurekalert.org, PwC analysis
8 Source: http://ndep.nih.gov/media/gp_toolkit.pdf31% 73% 50%
of Type 2 diabetics can 
benefit from healthy 
diet and exerciseof COPD patients 
can improve their 
conditions by focusing 
on wellbeingof CVD patients 
can help improve 
effectiveness of care 
through improved 
wellbeingImproving lifestyles using mHealth
SAPO Fit, an application to control obesity (Portugal)
Developer: SAPO, Portugal Telecom
This mobile application helps users to monitor in real 
time the calories eaten, by detailing the food intake, 
and the calories burned when physical activity 
is undertaken. SAPO Fit may be personalized to 
keep a daily Personal Health Record (PHR) of an 
individual’s food intake and daily exercise, and to 
share this with contacts and communities on a 
social network to encourage optimisation of one’s 
wellness regime and motivating one to stay fit by 
encouraging a collective endeavour.Traffic	Light	Food	Tracker,	a	tool	that	helps	people	
eat healthy food (Various EU member states)
Developer: Cancer Council Victoria, Obesity Policy 
Coalition
Language support: German, English, French, Dutch
This mobile application helps people eat more 
healthy food by using traffic light colours to rate 
the nutrition details of a food item listed on its 
packaging The user types in the content details 
such as total fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium 
content per 100 grams, and the app calculates a 
traffic light evaluation of unhealthiness of the food 
item — green for low, amber for medium, and red 
for high. It can help people take better control of 
their food and dietary choices to avoid many lifestyle 
diseases such as obesity and hypertension.Source: European Directory of Health Apps 2012-13 
(http://www.patient-view.com/-bull-directories.html),  
Pub Med (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22657250) 
T2DM
COPD
CVD
201228.5
12.923.729.3
15.225.9
2017
PwC12Burden of smoking
• Tobacco is the single largest avoidable health risk in EU.
• About 94% of the smokers in EU start smoking before they 
turn 25.
• Around 50% of smokers die prematurely (on an average 14 
years earlier).
• It accounts for nearly 700,000 premature deaths across EU.
Growing focus on anti-smoking
• The European Commission has launched campaigns like 
Ex-smokers are Unstoppable, in order to encourage young 
adults in the age group of 25 years to 34 years smoking. 
• iCoach is an online digital health coaching platform 
that helps individuals quit smoking. It provides tailored 
feedbacks, sends users daily e-mail tips as reminders for 
motivation. 
• Researchers have estimated that mobile phone programmes 
could nearly double the chance of quitting for at least six 
months, from 4 to 5% in control groups to 6 to 10% in 
intervention groups.
Impact of mHealth on smoking
• By 2017, mHealth has the potential to save 2.6 billion EUR 
by helping people quit smoking.
• Such avoidance of smoking will result in 2 billion EUR tax 
loss for the government.
Reducing the risk of chronic diseases
mHealth could help 6.9 million citizens 
better manage the risk of chronic 
diseases by improving their lifestyle.
By using the type of mHealth solutions 
discussed earlier, healthcare providers 
and patients can successfully control 
the incidence of lifestyle disorders and 
maintain wellbeing by the following 
ways:
•	 According to PwC estimates, 
potentially, 29.1 million obese 
people in the EU may use mHealth 
solutions regularly in 2017 and 
9.9 million of these may be able 
to reduce weight enough to avoid 
needing treatment for obesity.
•	 Out of the 102 million smokers, 
48.8 million can potentially use 
mHealth solutions regularly and 3.9 
million smokers could quit smoking 
successfully.
The resulting improvement in lifestyles 
and preventive measures enabled by 
mHealth can significantly lower the  
risk of chronic diseases by the  
following ways:
•	 By 2017, out of the 39.9 million 
people at risk of developing chronic 
diseases in the EU, 24.1 million 
could use mHealth solutions 
regularly to manage their lifestyles 
and take measures such as 
monitoring their blood pressure and 
diet to maintain wellbeing. 
•	 The regular use of these solutions 
can help 11.37 million patients of 
the 24.1 million to improve their 
respective lifestyle disorders enough 
to reduce the risk of disease. 
•	 Accounting for the reduced 
probability of developing chronic 
diseases amongst these 11.37 
million patients, 6.9 million patients 
can significantly limit the risk of 
developing chronic diseases at all. 
The reduction of risk spreads across the 
key chronic diseases we have assessed – 
T2DM, COPD and CVD:
•	 Around 14 million of the 18.1 
million people at risk of developing 
T2DM could better manage their 
obesity or hypertension by using 
mHealth solutions regularly. Of 
these 14 million patients, about 5 mHealth could reduce risk of chronic  
conditions for 6.9 mn users by 2017 
Source: PwC analysismHealth users who can successfully 
reduce risk of chronic conditions
mHealth users who can significantly 
improve their lifestyle disorders
Total mHealth users
5.0
1.1 0.88.4
1.3 1.714.0
1.88.3
 T2DM COPD CVDmHealth could enable 61 mn users to  
improve their lifestyles (in mn)
Source: PwC analysisUsers who can  
benefit from mHealth
Total mHealth users
Hypertension47.0
3.99.9147
49
29
Smoking Obesity
Socio-economic impact of mHealth13Impact for diabetes
• By 2017, mHealth can save 5 mn people 
from being at risk of developing diabetes. 
• About 161,000 cases of diabetes can be 
prevented.
• Lives of 5,200 diabetics can be saved.
• About 151,000 life years can be saved for 
people at risk of developing diabetes.
• Around 13 bn EUR in earnings can be 
added by avoiding absenteeism and 5.3 
bn EUR by avoiding early retirement.Hospitalisation days saved 
(‘000)
Life years saved (‘000)
129151
109
286
5
 T2DM COPD CVDmillion could successfully reduce 
the risk of developing T2DM.
•	 About 1.8 million people from 
among the 3.7 million at risk of 
developing COPD may improve 
their lifestyle conditions enough 
through regular use of mHealth 
solutions that support smoking 
cessation and improved wellbeing. 
Of these 1.8 million, 1 million 
can successfully reduce the risk of 
COPD.
•	 Similarly, of the 17.6 million 
people at risk of developing CVDs, 
about 8.3 million people could 
successfully use mHealth to make 
lifestyle and dietary improvements. 
Of these, about 833,000 could 
successfully reduce the risk of 
developing CVD.
Limiting burden 
of chronic 
diseasesRisk  
reductionIncidences 
prevented till 
2017
T2DM 5.0 mn 161,000
COPD 1.1 mn 363,000
CVD 0.8 mn 65,000
Source: PwC analysis
The reduced risk can avoid 589,000 
incidences of chronic disease by 2017, 
helping healthcare providers across the 
EU dedicate their resources to sustain 
the treatment of other patients. 
Helping patients suffering from chronic 
diseases manage their condition better
Improved lifestyles can help 11.2 million 
patients suffering from chronic diseases 
manage their condition better and 
increase the effectiveness of cares.
 
Source: PwC analysisUsers who may not 
benefit
Users benefitted
T2DM4.4
9.6
1.75.31.5
10.5
COPD CVDSource: European Directory of Health Apps 2012-13
By supporting chronic patients in 
improving their lifestyles through 
mHealth solutions, healthcare providers 
can encourage these patients to 
monitor their diet, physical activity and 
medications. The solutions can help 
healthcare providers and patients track 
the impact of these changes on relevant 
health parameters, allowing doctors to 
customise and improve care. By doing 
so, 11.2 million chronic patients in the 
EU could manage their conditions better 
by 2017. 
Optimising use of healthcare resources
Source: NYY-Tunstall-NHS study, PwC analysis
The impact of mHealth enabled 
wellness-oriented measures could 
help healthcare systems address the 
key needs of enhancing quality of care 
and making delivery more efficient. 
The reduced incidence and severity of 
chronic diseases could lower the burden 
on healthcare facilities by avoiding 
324,000 days of hospitalisation. Patients 
at risk of developing chronic diseases 
and those suffering from it could 
collectively live 158,000 years longer. By reducing the severity and incidence 
of chronic diseases, mHealth solutions 
could save a total of 69 billion EUR in 
treatment costs, allowing healthcare 
delivery systems to better cope with 
reducing budgets. The increased 
availability of healthcare resources and 
budgets could also allow healthcare 
systems to ensure better access to care 
by treating additional patients.
Empowering patients to self manage diseases and prevent complications
iBP Blood Pressure, a tool to track blood pressure 
(UK) 
Developer: Leading Edge Apps 
This smartphone application helps patients track 
blood pressure values and determine whether 
these are normal, high, or at hypertension. Using 
interactive graphs, it shows periodic trends of the 
user’s user blood pressure and indicates statistics 
such as lows, highs and averages over periods of 
monitoring. The application helps a hypertensive 
patient get more involved in managing one’s 
condition better.OnTrackDiabetes, for self management of diabetes 
(UK)
Developer: Gexperts Inc 
This mobile application helps diabetics self-
manage their condition by tracking various relevant 
parameters such as blood glucose, blood pressure 
(BP), exercise, food, medication, pulse and weight. 
It produces a variety of graphs and reports, and 
creates a log book which can be shared with 
the doctor for analysis. Through active lifestyle 
management, the tool can help diabetics to take 
more control over their disease and delay diabetes 
induced complications.
 Source: PwC analysisT2DM
COPD
CVD
Obesity
Smoking
Hypertension
Chronic  
patients11.046.0
12.3
At risk of 
chronic  
diseaseLifestyle 
disorders
95%
T2DM1%
COPD
4%
CVD98.9%
T2DM0.2%
COPD
0.9%
CVD“The National Diabetes Inpatient Audit tells us that 
at any one time around 15% of hospital beds are 
taken up by people with Diabetes. Of these, only 9% 
of patients have a primary diagnosis of diabetes, 
the rest are there for other complications. There is 
a real need for hospitals to capture patients early 
and understand the condition because treating a 
complication condition is more costly per day.”
John Grumitt  
Vice President, Diabetes UK
“About 80% of limb amputations due to 
diabetes are completely avoidable if proper 
diagnosis is done periodically. If a limb is 
lost than the chance of life for 5 more years 
is 30% and the chance of living for 3 years is 
50%. The social and economic cost is simply 
enormous and largely avoidable.” 
John Grumitt, Vice President, Diabetes UK2.2.2 Expediting diagnosis
The importance of early diagnosis
Delay in diagnosis of chronic diseases 
increases complications and treatment 
costs
Source: PwC analysis
Source: http://www.businesswire.com/news/
home/20111220005893/en/App-Store-Names-AirStrip-CAR -
DIOLOGY-iPhone-Medica
The latent nature of chronic diseases 
leads to delays in diagnosis. 14On 
average, 40% of T2DM patients are 
not aware of their condition until 
seven to eight years after the disease 
has developed. Around 50% of people 
are usually not aware of the causes of 
disease and their symptoms. In addition 
due to the lack of access to diagnostic 
facilities, these factors contribute to 
patients not undergoing preventive 
health check-ups and thereby delaying 
the diagnosis of disease.Enabling remote diagnosis
AirStrip	CARDIOLOGY,	remote	diagnosis	and	
treatment decision making tool for heart patients
This smartphone application enables physicians 
to view electrocardiograms on their mobile 
devices. It allows clinicians anytime and anywhere 
access to live and historical ECG data of patients 
on their iPad and iPhone, along with enhanced 
analytics. It helps clinicians to make faster, more 
informed diagnosis and treatment decisions. 
When treating cardiac patients, these extra 
minutes can help patients recover quickly by 
expediting medical intervention and prevent heart 
damage.9.4 mn people at risk of chronic disease can 
use mHealth-enabled diagnosis regularly
815,000 people can diagnose chronic  
diseases early
Due to these reasons, most chronic 
diseases get diagnosed when 
complications appear. Hence, the 
severity of the chronic disease increases, 
resulting in increased hospitalisation 
and higher treatment costs.
14 Source: IDF Atlas, 2012,PwC analysis
Socio-economic impact of mHealth153.7 bn EUR costs saved due to improved 
outcomes
Note: ALOS: Average Length of Stay
Source:	Rosemontpharma,	Ericsson	mobile	health	study,	PwC	
analysis
Need for monitoring amongst chronic  
patients (in mn)
Source:	Rosemontpharma,	Ericsson	mobile	health	study,	PwC	
analysis99.4%
T2DM0%
COPD
0.6%
CVD
Source: e-health initiative report by California Healthcare, PwC analysis
Patients with condition
Patients who need to be 
monitored
29
15 151126
194795
T2DM COPD CVD Ageing 
populationExpediting diagnosis using mHealth 
solutions
A total of 0.84 million patients could 
benefit from mHealth through the 
expedited diagnosis of chronic diseases 
and timely medical interventions, 
saving 3.7 billion EUR in treatment 
costs.
mHealth solutions that enable remote 
diagnosis and self-assessment of 
symptoms enable healthcare providers 
to detect diseases earlier and facilitate 
timely medical interventions. These 
solutions educate patients on symptoms 
of disease, helping them understand 
if and when they need to undergo 
diagnostic tests. Some mHealth 
solutions also allow patients to store 
the results of diagnostic tests on their 
mobile devices and share these with 
the healthcare provider, eliminating 
the need of hospital visits. By doing so, 
mHealth solutions reduce the burden 
on, both, diagnostic facilities and care 
facilities. Hence, access to care increases 
and diagnosis becomes more affordable. 
Increasing effectiveness and efficiency  
of care
Through educational and algorithmic 
solutions that allow patients to self-
assess symptoms, mHealth can help 
9.4 million regular users at risk 
of developing chronic diseases to 
expedite diagnosis. Accounting for the 
prevalence of various chronic diseases 
in the EU, PwC estimates that 815,000 
patients can successfully detect chronic 
diseases early. These patients could 
avoid complications and seek medical 
attention earlier, reducing the need for 
hospitalization and saving 3.7 billion 
EUR in treatment costs. Doctors and 
paramedic staff could save 472,000 
doctor days by having to treat fewer 
complications. 2.2.3 Delivering continuous 
care remotely
Monitoring patients that require 
continuous care
Continuous care and the lack of 
treatment adherence in chronic 
conditions raises care costs and creates 
a need for monitoring.
Chronic diseases and elderly care require 
constant, real-time management. The 
patients need to be disciplined with 
their treatment and diet schedules. The 
high levels of adherence required from 
patients can be tiring and patients often 
miss their medication, resulting in non-
compliance to treatment. Additionally, 
patients often mistake temporary 
relief for significant improvement 
and discontinue treatment or lower 
medication levels. The sub-optimal 
clinical outcomes resulting from these 
reasons lead to hospital re-admissions.
To limit this non-compliance and avoid 
hospital re-admissions, patients need to 
be continuously monitored in hospital 
for longer periods, which increases 
treatment costs and further burdens 
healthcare systems. 
PwC estimates that 45 million chronic 
patients and 47 million ageing people 
in the EU could need monitoring by 
2017. 
To sustain these monitoring needs 
with limited hospital beds, healthcare 
systems are exploring ways to treat 
patients at their homes. Ind. ageing
Non-compliance rate 50%
ALOS per year 23472,000  
doctor days 
can be  
saved
T2DM  
466,000 
doctors
COPD  
1,000  
doctorsCVD 
5,000  
doctors
T2DM  
Non-compliance rate 50%
ALOS per year 13
COPD
Non-compliance  
rate 75%
ALOS per year 12CVD
Non-compliance  
rate 75%
ALOS per year 12
PwC16mHealth can benefit a high number of chronic patients (in mn)mHealth can benefit a high number of 
chronic patients (in mn)
2459
5 5922
15
111947
T2DM COPD CVD Ageing 
populationPatients who need to be monitored
Patients monitored using mhealth
Patients benefitted
Source: Continua Health alliance, SeniorBridge, AXA Insurance, NYY-NHS Telehealth study, PwC analysis
“Mobile health can help in reducing the readmission rates of the 
patient. It can help in taking the care away from the healthcare 
facility to home. It could also help in establishing an early warning 
system.” 
Alain Labrique, John Hopkins UniversityEnabling continuous care outside 
hospitals
mHealth enabled monitoring could 
help remotely deliver care to 22 million 
independently ageing citizens and 19 
million chronic patients.
mHealth solutions help healthcare 
delivery systems to provide continuous 
care remotely by using mobile 
technologies. By keeping healthcare 
providers connected with patients while 
they are at home, these solutions can 
allow healthcare providers to monitor 
the health of patients and intervene 
when required. These solutions also 
motivate patients to improve their 
lifestyle and help increase their dietary 
and treatment compliance through SMS 
and call based reminders. Patients can 
transmit their pathological readings 
through connected mobile devices to 
their healthcare providers, who can then 
analyse the health patterns captured 
to optimise care and make it patient-
centric. mHealth solutions can also help 
patients feel safer by helping healthcare 
providers track their movements 
remotely and raising emergency alerts 
earlier. 
By empowering patients to self-manage 
care, healthcare providers can help 22 
million ageing citizens and 19 million 
chronic patients regularly rely on 
mHealth for continuous care in 2017. 
Enhancing effectiveness of care
Improved adherence and remote 
treatment enabled by mHealth can 
save 6,000 lives and reduce 168 million 
hospital days, increasing effectiveness 
of care.Enabling remote treatment
iBGStar, remote and self management  
of diabetes
iBGStar is a mobile phone application that 
uses a device plugged into the smart phone 
to view, store and track blood glucose 
levels. Additionally, the application 
matches blood sugars to a meal that an 
individual has just finished. It stores 
nutritional information about the meal 
and communicates that information to 
the doctor, allowing them to intervene 
early and make the overall treatment more 
effective.Medipal, doctor-patient communication 
application (Sweden)
Developer: Novatelligence AB, Sweden
This smart phone application improves 
doctor-patient communication by helping 
a patient answer questions that the 
healthcare provider wishes to ask. The 
healthcare provider creates a ‘Medipal’ 
account for the patient, enters into it 
questions about one’s treatment and 
medical condition that the patient should 
answer. This interaction with the remotely 
located doctor not only increases the 
patient’s involvement in one’s own care 
but also helps doctors to stay engaged with 
their patient’s treatment cycle even if the 
patient doesn’t visit the hospital.Source: European Directory of Health Apps 2012-13, 
http://www.bgstar.com/web/ibgstar/app,Orange, GSMA 
Connected Living Tracker
Ageing population
3.3 mnTreatment and 
Monitoring improved 
using mhealth
3.8 mn 168 mn
Hospitalisation days saved (in mn)
168  
Ageing population0.12
Chronic diseasesHospitalisation days saved (in mn)
Source: HOPE-European hospital and healthcare federation, 
PwC analysisLimiting burden of 
chronic diseasesRisk  
reductionIncidences 
prevented 
till 2017
T2DM 13 31%
COPD 12 31%
CVD 12 22%
Ageing population 23 80%
Socio-economic impact of mHealth17Improved adherence and continuous 
remote treatment of chronic conditions 
using mHealth can help avoid severe 
complications and improve clinical 
outcomes. As a result, 11 million chronic 
patients can avoid 121,000 days of 
hospitalisation and 6,000 lives can be 
saved. In addition, elderly patients can 
avoid 3.3 million falls. Furthermore, 
improved emergency response and 
treatment compliance for 9 million 
elderly patients can save 168 million 
days of hospitalisation. There is also the 
additional benefit of having the comfort 
of staying at home thereby enhancing 
the quality of their life.
Healthcare cost savings (in bn EUR)
Source: PwC analysis
Working days saved for doctors (in mn)
Source: PwC analysis
Source: European Directory of Health Apps 2012-13Increasing efficiency of care
Increased effectiveness of care through 
remote monitoring can not only save 
32.1 billion EUR in treatment costs 
but also reduce the shortfall of 1,840 
doctors
By helping attain improved clinical 
outcomes and reduce the need of 
hospitalisation, mHealth enabled 
remote monitoring could save 32 billion 
EUR in healthcare costs across the 
EU. Healthcare providers can monitor 
multiple patients at once and prioritise 
patients to attend to, which reduces 
waiting times. According to PwC 
estimates, around 0.46 million working 
days saved for doctors can be saved as a 
result, which is the equivalent to 1,840 
doctors being added to the system.
2.2.4 Strengthening 
healthcare delivery systems
Inefficient utilisation of IT and electronic 
health records
Healthcare systems across the EU 
have varied capabilities to leverage 
information and communication 
technologies to support their 
practitioners. It is estimated that 
practitioners spend 25% to 30% of their 
time gathering and analysing medical 
and patient care data. The absence 
or inefficient use of electronic health 
records can limit the efficiency of a 
hospital. Lack of mobility support for 
doctors can keep them from accessing 
information on the move which limits 
the efficient utilization of their time. 
Further, most doctors have to invest 
personal effort to seek information 
on the latest protocols, best practices 
and international updates. The lack of 
readily available relevant information 
can result in uninformed clinical 
decisions. Such decisions can lead to 
prescription and dosage errors, creating 
adverse drug events (ADEs) that cost EU 
healthcare systems 2.7 billion EUR per 
year in care costs and account for 1.1% 
of all hospitalisations in the EU.Addressing the shortage of doctors through 
improved practitioner support
mHealth could create 39 million 
working days for doctors by improving 
practitioner support, reducing the 
shortfall of doctors by 156,000.
Source: PwC analysis
16Using tablet computers and other 
mobile devices can help doctors and 
paramedic staff to save 30% of their 
time spent on accessing and analysing 
information. Doctors and paramedics 
could update patient health records 
during consultations and plan their 
rounds better. By 2017, 1.6 million 
doctors across the EU could, save up to 
39 million working days for doctors. This 
could not only create additional capacity 
equivalent to 156,000 doctors but also 
allow doctors to spend more time with 
patients that really need face to face 
attention, enhancing the quality of care.
Enhancing practitioner support
My	Life	Record,	Electronic	Medical	Record	system
Life Record EMR is a smartphone based 
application which provides patients better control 
of their electronic medical records. It allows 
patients to store their medical imaging, charts, 
medications and lab results. Patients can easily 
share such records with their doctors and nurses. 
It also includes features like e-prescription which 
saves doctor’s time to write a prescription, allows 
patients to increase compliance and expedites 
medical interventions.
Source: http://www.myliferecord.com/index.html1.6 mn
doctors
39 mn
working 
days for 
doctors 
saved30% of doctor’s time is 
spent accessing and  
updating medical records
mHealth can reduce  
this time by 30%
4.2
0.162.1
0.242.9
0.0722.9
0.4632.1
T2DM COPD CVD Ageing 
populationTotal  
savings
T2DM COPD CVD Total working 
days saved 
for doctors
Enhancing treatment compliance using 
mHealth
MoviPill, medication reminder application (Spain), 
Movistar (Telefónica)
The smartphone application encourages patients 
to take their medication at prescribed times 
by making the treatment adherence process 
more competitive. It uses a point based system 
to reward and reprimand the levels of drug 
adherence. Points are awarded or deducted 
based on how close to the prescribed time 
patients took their medication. Leaders are 
visible on a communal web based scoreboard 
and winners are awarded at the end of each 
week. Such participative applications motivate 
patients towards their care and improve treatment 
adherence.
“Next five years will see mobile explode in healthcare 
as there are possibilities that are emerging from the 
sort of facilities that mobile technologies are able to 
provide. The convergence between the mobile phones 
and traditional computers in form of tablets and 
smartphones will revolutionise the way healthcare 
is delivered.”
Lars Palmberg, Stockholm City Council
* Dr. Anand Iyer, President and COO, WellDoc; Dr. Annette Kroettinger, German Foundation for the Chronically Ill, Germany
16 Source: Stockholm County Council, Sweden  
2.7 bn
165 mnCost of ADE (2017)
Cost reduction of ADE Preventing ADEs
Helping healthcare providers stay 
informed can allow them to save 165 
million EUR by preventing ADEs.
Source: Ispor.org , PwC analysis
According to expert opinion, 1735% 
of the ADEs can be avoided if 
practitioners have access to adequate 
information while writing prescriptions. 
mHealth solutions can help here 
by providing practitioners access to 
latest information, best practices and 
patients’ medical records. Therefore, 
practitioners can check potential drug 
conflicts while writing prescriptions and 
make better clinical decisions, thereby 
improving the quality of care and patient 
safety. 3In 2017, preventable ADEs could 
be lowered by 17% and 165 million EUR 
could be saved in treatment costs. 
2.3 Creating value through 
mHealth
Enabling healthcare providers to empower 
patients
Adding up all the benefits of mHealth, 
enhanced healthcare delivery can 
empower 61 million people to improve 
their lifestyles, reduce the risk of 
developing chronic diseases amongst 
6.9 million people and add a further 
158,000 life years in 2017 .•	35% of ADEs are preventable if 
adequate knowledge is available
•	mHealth can help prevent 17% of 
preventable ADEs
•	This results in overall ADE 
reduction of 6%6%
By 2017, mHealth could enhance 
effectiveness of care by the  
following ways:
•	 Helping 61 million patients improve 
their lifestyles.
•	 Helping 6.9 million people 
lower the risk of developing 
chronic diseases through lifestyle 
improvement and enhanced 
prevention.
•	 Helping prevent 589,000 incidences 
of chronic diseases.
•	 Helping 11 million chronic patients 
and nine million ageing patients 
reduce complications and avoid 
169 million days of hospitalisation 
through remote treatment and 
monitoring.
These benefits are significant because 
not only they can sustain healthcare 
systems longer but patients benefiting 
from mHealth can also stay healthier 
and prolong their lives.
Limiting the healthcare spend and 
improving its efficiency
By 2017 , mHealth could save an 
aggregated 99 billion EUR in 
healthcare costs for the EU, with the EU 
governments saving 76 billion EUR and 
537 EUR per regular mHealth user.
By using mHealth to enhance the 
effectiveness and efficiency of 62%
COPD11%
CVD
27%
T2DM
care, improved clinical decision-
making, remote monitoring, reduced 
hospitalisation and better utilisation 
of doctors’ time could allow healthcare 
systems to achieve the following: 
•	 Save more than 40 million doctor 
days.
•	 Create systemic savings of 99 billion 
EUR, which account for the six 
billion EUR required to finance the 
211,000 jobs required to support 
mHealth deployments.
•	 Reduce the annual per capita 
healthcare costs for the 185 million 
patients that could benefit from 
mHealth solutions by 537 EUR.
•	 Enable 185 million patients to save 
75 EUR per year in out-of-pocket 
health expenses.
Of the 99 billion EUR savings created, 
public payers could save 76 billion 
EUR of this while private spending can 
be reduced by 23 billion EUR. These 
savings could help treat an additional 
24.5 million patients, sustain capital 
costs for mHealth deployments and 
healthcare facilities and in the long term 
improve the access to care by reducing 
private healthcare premiums.
17 Source: http://www.ispor.org/ValueInHealth/ShowValueInHealth.aspx?issue=5999FB72-6F7B-4BAA-83B2-4C9C37B7FB20
18	Source:	http://www.se2009.eu/polopoly_fs/1.8227!menu/standard/file/eHealth%20for%20a%20Healthier%20Europe.pdfCreating healthier and longer lives
Preventing 589,000 incidences of chronic 
diseasesAdditional patients could be treated using 
the time saved for doctors and hospital  
beds freed up
Stronger healthcare 
systems
Remote treatment  
and monitoring
Life years added (‘000) Life saved (‘000)6158
742
mn
169
mn126
mn
24.5 
mn39 
mn
168 
mn1.86
mn
0.12
mn.47
mn
.32
mnTotal  
doctor  
days 
saved
Total  
hospital 
days 
savedAdditional  
patients that 
could be  
attended
Additional  
patients that 
could be  
treated*Wellness and 
prevention
Treatment 
and monitor -
ing: Chronic 
patientsWith 
improved 
practitioner 
support
Treat -
ment and 
monitoring – 
Independent 
ageingDiagnosis
Wellness 
and pre -
vention.46
mn
Treatment and 
Monitoring
Assumptions: 
1. Each additional patient will need 3 visits per year 
2. A doctor can conduct 18 patient visits per day
3. A doctor utilises only half of the time saved to see ad -
ditional patients
4. *A patient gets hospitalised for 6.9 days per year, the aver -
age length of stay in hospitals across the EU
Socio-economic impact of mHealth19The reduction in per capita savings 
could also be a significant improvement 
in an environment where governments 
are asking people to support health 
expenses to a greater extent than before. 
Hence, the healthcare systems can 
achieve the opposing goals of ensuring 
access to care and limiting healthcare 
costs by using mHealth.
99 bn EUR healthcare costs saved
Source: HOPE-European hospital and healthcare federation, 
PwC analysis
To ensure that capital costs incurred in 
mHealth deployments in the near-term 
are covered through future healthcare 
savings, it is important to appreciate 
that 265 billion EUR can be saved in 
healthcare costs from 2013 to 2017 
through the use of mHealth. While the 
savings in 2017 alone are significant, the 
healthcare expenses that can be saved 
or avoided using mHealth over this five-
year period will be extremely relevant to 
ensure that future gains are sufficiently 
large for healthcare providers to justify 
an immediate investment in mHealth.
Boosting economic growth
In 2017 , an enhanced quality of life and 
prolonged professional lives could add 
93 billion EUR to the EU GDP.
The enhanced productivity of 185 
million patients benefitting from 
mHealth could create a positive 
economic impact on society. 
•	 A total of 6.9 million patients 
at risk of developing chronic 
diseases would be able to avoid 1.6 
billion hours in otherwise unpaid 
absenteeism due to ill health.
•	 A total of 11.2 million chronic 
patients will be able to avoid 
508,000 instances of premature 
retirement and collectively extend 
their professional lives by 4.3 billion 
work hours.
•	 As a result, the disposable wages 
of these 18.1 million patients can 
increase by 66 billion EUR and 
enabling the government to collect an additional 27.1 billion EUR in 
taxes. 
•	 Chronic patients who would have 
successfully avoided premature 
retirement up to 2017 by using 
mHealth to manage their diseases 
could add 4.3 billion work hours to 
their lives in 2017.
•	 Due to avoidance of unpaid 
absenteeism and premature 
retirement, the disposable wages 
of patients who successfully 
extend their professional lives can 
increase by 66 billion EUR and 
the government can collect an 
additional 27.1 billion EUR in taxes. 
mHealth could, thus, help create greater 
safeguards in challenging economic 
times, increase investments and 
enhance availability of funds to finance 
healthcare costs.Improved 
wellness and 
prevention69
432
-6
Early  
diagnosisRemote 
treatment 
and  
monitoringStronger 
healthcare 
systemsHealthcare cost savings due to mHealth adoption in EU (bn EUR)
Source: HOPE-European hospital and healthcare federation, PwC analysisIf healthcare cost savings are used to treat additional patients, 24.5 million patients can be treated,  
leaving significant savings to support cost of mHealth deployments
99 bn EUR
Healthcare cost 
savings66.5 bn EUR
Cost savings 
spent on new 
patients
32.5 bn EUR
Remaining cost 
savings24.5 mn*
Additional patients
EUR 2,710 
Avg. healthcare spend per patient
Sustain mHealth capital costs
826557699265
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total
Work hours saved 
due to abseneeism 
avoidance (in mn)4286
1587
Work hours saved 
due to early  
retirement (in mn)
93 bn EUR can get added to EU GDP
Source: PwC analysis27
Taxes
66
WagesExtending professional lives for 
citizensAvoidance of early retirement and 
absenteeism
6.9
Reduction in unpaid  
absentees (in mn)0.5
Early retirements 
avoided (in mn)
PwC20
Overcoming barriers 
to adoption 
Lack of adoption can severely limit the 
realisation of mHealth’s potential
The initial estimates of the socio-
economic impact of mHealth as 
described in this report present a 
compelling case to accelerate the 
adoption of mHealth. However, at 
present there are multiple barriers that 
prevent mHealth solutions from being 
adopted and achieving scale. According 
to expert opinion19, only 10% of the 
potential users in 2017 could adopt 
mHealth due to these barriers, and, as a 
result, only 5% of the potential benefits 
might get realised. 
There are four sets of active barriers that 
limit the adoption of mHealth. These 
barriers are: 
•	 Regulatory: An absence of 
adequate regulatory mechanisms 
that enable innovative health 
services to be deployed whilst 
ensuring patient safety and trust is 
delaying services reaching patients 
and healthcare professionals.
 - Lack of clarity on mHealth 
certification: Clarity needs to 
be provided on how medical 
device regulations apply to 
mHealth, providing a clear 
pathway for certification. 
 - Lack of interoperability 
standards:  The absence of 
regulations or standards that 
mandate interoperability 
amongst mHealth solutions 
and devices limit the scope of 
innovation and economies of 
scale to be achieved as well as 
negatively impacting ease of 
use.Regular mHealth users subjected to benefit by 2017 (in mn)
Source: PwC analysisPotential -  
100% adoptionPotential -  
100% adoptionNo action -  
10% adoptionNo action -  
10% adoptionChapter 3
:
:
19 Primary interview with OnMobileTotal healthcare cost savings in 2017 (in EUR) Total GDP addition in 2017 (in EUR)
99 bn 93 bn 6.6 bn 6.5 bn
Socio-economic impact of mHealth21
 - Lack of clarity on data 
protection legislation: Health 
data in the EU is a sensitive 
issue and requires a high level 
of protection. As a result, the 
legislation for data protection 
in the EU places individual 
right to privacy above the use 
of such data for the larger 
benefit of society, thereby 
restricting healthcare providers 
from sharing such data20. This 
localises mHealth deployments 
and limits their effectiveness in 
analysing patient data.
•	 Economic: These barriers restrict 
the adoption and scalability of 
mHealth solutions by either limiting 
their affordability or making their 
use commercially unviable for 
healthcare providers and patients.
 - Need for further evidence: 
Healthcare providers and 
policy makers require 
further evidence of clinical 
and economic benefits that 
mHealth can provide to 
increase its adoption.
 - Conflicting financial 
incentives for healthcare 
providers: Across a few 
healthcare systems in the 
EU, healthcare providers are 
allocated budgets according to 
the number of patients treated “Regulation is lagging behind 
adoption.” 
Adesina Illuyemi,  
University of Portsmouth“Lack of payment mechanisms 
is a major limitation. 
Technologies paid for are 
adopted quickly.” 
Dr. Annette Kroettinger, German 
Foundation for the Chronically ill
“mHealth will generate data but 
no common framework to host 
that data currently exists. A 
common framework is needed 
within the EU region to ensure 
that mHealth can provide real 
benefits.” 
Yannis Nahal, Orange
“There is currently a lack of 
decision-making from the 
government in the form of 
delay in procedures, absence 
of correct economic incentive 
to use such solutions -- to keep 
healthcare organisations 
attracted towards such 
solutions.” 
Stefano Roscini, Telecom Italia“Changes are not coming from 
within as existing hospitals 
are governed by an economic 
model which works on 
adding resources. This is not 
sustainable.” 
John Grumitt, Vice President, 
Diabetes UK“Successful business models 
could consist of getting data 
from cloud-based services 
and collaborating with other 
stakeholders so that the data 
could be analysed and used.” 
Horst Merkle, Roche Diagnostics
20	 The	European	data	protection	legislation	and	its	consequences	for	public	health	monitoring:	a	plea	for	action	(http://eurpub.oxfordjournals.org/content/18/6/550.long)
PwC22in hospitals. Such financial 
incentives are in direct 
conflict with the overall goal 
of mHealth or other similar 
technologies that could keep 
patients away from hospitals. 
 - Lack of reimbursement 
mechanisms for patients: 
A lack of reimbursement or 
funding mechanisms that 
could cover patients for the 
cost of mHealth solutions and 
associated devices limits the 
adoption of these solutions, 
especially amongst the low 
income groups.
 - Limited awareness of benefits 
of mHealth: Quite often, 
healthcare providers and 
patients are unaware of the 
benefits of mHealth solutions, 
which can slow down their 
adoption and increase the 
selling expenses for mHealth 
vendors. 
•	 Structural: The existing structure 
of healthcare systems could either 
restrict or discourage cohesion 
and competition amongst various 
healthcare providers, preventing 
solutions that enable efficiency 
from being adopted.
 - Lack of cohesion: Healthcare 
systems could be better 
integrated functionally and 
electronically across the EU 
member states21. The resulting 
lack of cohesion across levels 
of care and regions, limits 
the scale and effectiveness of 
mHealth deployments.  - High change management 
needs: The significant change 
management associated 
with deployment and use of 
mHealth solutions requires 
allocation of time and 
resources, which may lower the 
efficiency and profitability of 
healthcare delivery during the 
transitory period. 
•	 Technological: The absence 
of technological standards that 
promote the efficient development 
and use of mHealth solutions 
prevent mHealth investments from 
being utilised well and limit the 
deployment of mHealth.
 - Absence of protocols to 
standardise solutions: 
Standardising the data 
definitions across mHealth 
solutions is necessary to 
allow a seamless exchange 
of data across solutions and 
platforms. The absence of such 
data protocols could limit the 
efficient use of these solutions 
and restrict their benefits.
 - Lack of interoperability: The 
absence of regulations that 
mandate the solutions and 
devices capable of working 
with each other can localise the 
applicability of these solutions 
and limit their scalability. - Late involvement of doctors 
in solution design:  Quite 
often, doctors are involved 
in the development of a 
mHealth solution in the later 
stages of the design process. 
This late involvement results 
in a mismatch between the 
actual healthcare workflows 
and the ones incorporated 
in the mHealth solution. 
Hence, healthcare providers 
avoid adopting these due 
to the significant change 
management needs.
Actions needed to drive adoption
Immediate actions from policy makers, 
regulators and payers can help lower 
the barriers and drive adoption
Many mHealth benefits are system-
oriented and may be visible over the 
longer term. Immediate action on 
the key adoption barriers is needed 
to ensure that these benefits can be 
attained in time to meet the current 
and imminent healthcare challenges 
adequately.
Various initiatives, such as the eHealth 
Action Plan, have been taken by the 
European Commission and some 
EU member states to better leverage 
eHealth. Similarly, to better harness the 
potential of mHealth, the regulators 
and policy makers across the European 
Commission and various EU member 
states need to formulate policies that 
can drive adoption of mHealth solutions. 
The national and regional payers need 
to support these policies by creating 
facilitative reimbursement mechanisms 
that ease the adoption of mHealth 
solutions across patients and healthcare 
providers. In the following paragraphs, 
we describe a few actions that could 
be taken to maximise the potential of 
mHealth.Four key adoption barriers such as regulatory, economic, structural and technological – can limit the benefits of mHealth
21 Adesina Illuyemi, University of Portsmouth
Socio-economic impact of mHealth23Collaboration across the ecosystem 
Healthcare and telecoms policy makers 
and regulators need to work with 
other stakeholders in the mHealth 
ecosystem to design facilitative policies 
that streamline the development of 
mHealth solutions and support their 
commercialisation by providing solid 
economic reasons that encourage 
adoption:
•	 Integrate mHealth within national 
healthcare strategies and policy 
initiatives. 
•	 Align the development of mHealth 
solutions with the immediate 
healthcare priorities of each 
member state.
•	 Help create policies that encourage 
competition between regional 
healthcare providers, making 
the healthcare systems more 
performance oriented and less 
hospital-centric.
•	 Continue building the evidence base 
of mHealth benefits with relevant 
industry associations and solution 
providers.
•	 Leverage cloud-based solutions to 
aggregate the statistics from active 
mHealth deployments to measure 
and demonstrate the impact of 
these solutions on clinical outcomes 
and care costs.Bridge regulatory gaps
The facilitative policies need to be 
supported by a solid regulatory 
framework that adequately addresses 
the key concerns of various stakeholders 
around safety and trust. The following 
actions can not only help address the 
regulatory barriers adequately but also 
the technological barriers, since these 
actions will facilitate the development of 
standardised and interoperable mHealth 
solutions:
•	 Raise clarity on EU medical device 
regulation based on a proportionate 
risk-based approach that ensures 
safety and quality while stimulating 
innovation and patient access.
•	 Clarify data protection legislation as 
it applies to mHealth, ensuring end-
user trust and ease of use.
•	 Introduce regulations that address 
the gaps in General Data Protection 
Regulation (GPDR) and mandate 
different healthcare providers to 
share patient data, facilitating 
optimisation of references across 
different levels of care and the 
regional healthcare providers. 
•	 Promote technology and data 
standards to ensure development 
of interoperable and standardised 
solutions.Create economic incentives
In order to overcome the barriers 
created by conflicting incentives that 
healthcare providers are provided with, 
the policy makers, regulators and payers 
need to work together to:
•	 Create incentives that reward 
healthcare providers for gains 
achieved from the efficient 
utilisation of resources enabled 
by mHealth solutions across 
populations.
•	 Develop innovative and sustainable 
reimbursement or funding 
mechanisms that cover the cost 
of using mHealth solutions and 
associated devices, thereby- 
enabling equal access.
Support the use of mHealth
While the key barriers may be addressed 
directly or indirectly by executing the 
steps mentioned above, policy makers, 
regulators and payers need to ensure 
that the development and deployment 
of solutions are optimized and that 
healthcare providers have adequate 
support in leveraging mHealth solutions 
better. To achieve this, they might:
•	 Engage patients and healthcare 
professionals earlier during solution 
design to continue refinements of 
exact needs for mHealth solutions 
and lower change management 
requirements.
•	 Work together with medical 
universities, healthcare 
professionals, patient organisations, 
and relevant social media channels 
to educate the healthcare providers 
and patients on the use of mHealth 
solutions and their benefits.
•	 Identify medical universities and 
hospitals or pioneers in mHealth’s 
implementation to optimise change 
management and set up training 
processes that wider healthcare 
delivery systems can follow. 
•	 Identify medical universities and 
hospitals as pioneers in mHealth 
implementation in order to optimise 
change management and set up 
training processes that the wider 
healthcare delivery systems can 
follow.
•	 Centralise the procurement of 
mHealth solutions to ensure that 
compliance with established 
technology and data standards is 
attained. 
PwC24Driving collaboration
While the various initiatives listed 
above could drive adoption and make 
investments in mHealth more efficient, 
significant collaboration among 
stakeholders is required to ensure that 
these steps are executed efficiently and 
coincide with each other as required. 
Clearly, policy makers, regulators 
and payers are best placed to catalyse 
the actions and involvement of the 
stakeholders. Hence, they need to lead 
the initiatives and drive urgency of 
action.
A lack of action and coordination in 
the form of policies, frameworks and 
supporting initiatives can either leave 
the benefits of mHealth underutilised 
or pushed out too far in time to help the 
healthcare systems to bridge the gaps 
that they are at risk of developing. “Regulators can ensure that there is public 
access to data around quality and cost of 
care so that patients can make decision 
about their care. They should increase the 
focus on success and put in place a failure 
regime. Along with that, they need to  
create data standards so that information  
can flow.” 
John Grumitt  
Vice President, Diabetes UK
“Successful business models could 
consist of getting data from cloud 
based services and collaborating so 
that the data could be analysed and 
used.” 
Horst Merkle, Roche Diagnostics
“Governance of mobile health is one 
area where government needs to work 
and invest.” 
Prof Devaka Fernando, Diabetes expert 
Sheffield Hallam University
Socio-economic impact of mHealth25A.1 Assumptions 
Areas of assumption Assumptions
Health conditions Chronic conditions: T2DM, CVD and COPD are the conditions considered for assessment. 
Lifestyle conditions: Obesity, smoking and hypertension have been analysed as these lead to chronic conditions.
Ageing population: This has also been analysed as a significant proportion of the EU population is above 65 and it poses a major 
challenge to the region.
Criteria for disease selection Chronic and lifestyle conditions have been selected based on factors such as prevalence, Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY)  
loss and mortality contribution to the EU region. 
Ageing population was found relevant because it poses a significant cost burden to the healthcare systems and patients. 
Our study omitted certain diseases such as cancer and asthma because our healthcare experts opined that mHealth will not be 
able to create any significant clinical improvement in the short term.
Areas of mHealth intervention Two broad areas of intervention considered include solutions across the patient pathways and the healthcare systems.
Solutions across patient pathways: Areas considered include wellness, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and remote monitoring.
Solution across healthcare systems: Areas considered include healthcare practitioner support, healthcare administration and 
emergency response. 
Relevant population Wellness and prevention: Population at risk of developing conditions and pouplation with conditions being assessed.
Diagnosis: Population at risk who do not have access to diagnosis and population with conditions who are not diagnosed.
Treatment and monitoring: Population with conditions who are non-compliant to treatment.
The above-mentioned population base has been segmented into basic mobile phone user base and smartphone user base.
Adoption factors Telecom penetration rate is used to arrive at the population that could be reached by mHealth. Here, penetration rates for both 
basic mobile phones and smartphones have been applied on the relevant population.
Adoption rate reflects the percentage of the relevant population who will adopt such mHealth solutions. Two scenarios have been 
considered here which are as follows:
•	 Adoption rate would be 10% in 2017 if no action is taken to encourage it.
•	 Potential adoption rate in 2017 is taken to be 100%, assuming that full adoption will be realised once the mHealth framework, 
policies and business models will be put in place.
Adoption rates have been arrived at through primary interviews with healthcare experts.
Repeat usage rate has been accounted for based on the assumption that the mHealth application will take six to 12 months to 
have meaningful healthcare impact. It has been validated by healthcare experts in relevant geographies.
mHealth benefits Finding across the following areas have been used to quantify and estimate mHealth related benefits:
•	 Pilot mHealth projects and their benefits.
•	 Tele-health projects and their benefits.
•	 e-Health project and their benefits.
Final numbers obtained from these findings were further validated and modulated through primary interviews in the  
relevant geographies. 
Age group for health 
conditionsLifestyle conditions: Relevant age groups have been considered for each disease or medical conditions. E.g. 15+ years for 
smoking, hypertension and obesity.
Chronic conditions: The age group of 20 to 79 years has been considered for T2DM, whereas for COPD and CVD, 15 years and 
above have been considered.
Ageing population: The age group of 65 years and above has been considered.
Treatment cost Historical treatment costs have been inflation adjusted in order to arrive at current costs where required.
Productivity loss Due to absenteeism, productivity loss has been computed over unpaid sick days beyond entitled sick leaves. 
Due to early retirement, productivity loss has been computed on the years by which a chronic patient retires early.
Daily wages and tax rates of each country have been taken into account to calculate productivity loss and loss on government 
taxes due to absenteeism and early retirement.
Hospitalisation days Percentage of hospitalisation and ALOS have been captured from secondary sources. This was further validated by primary 
interviews from healthcare experts in relevant geographies. 
Job creation Jobs will be created for paramedics, trainers and technical support staff for each mHealth deployment in hospitals.
Adverse drug events Preventable adverse drug events cause a major cost burden on the healthcare system. This can be reduced by effective mHealth 
deployments across hospitals.
Extrapolation of benefits  
for EU 27 countriesCalculations have been explained under the Methodology appendix which highlights the factors and steps used for extrapolation.
Grouping: EU 27 has been divided into three country grouping based on factors such as type of healthcare systems, healthcare 
spend as a % of GDP and government spending on healthcare. Three countries were then chosen to represent each grouping.
Clinical benefits: The benefits estimated for the representative country of each country grouping have been used for the remaining 
countries in the grouping.
Treatment cost savings: These have been extrapolated and adjusted based on the ratio of per capita healthcare spend in the 
relevant country and the representative country of that country grouping. 
Increase in earnings: These have been extrapolated by capturing hourly wages and taxes of each country.Appendices
PwC26A.2 Methodology
Understanding and quantifying region-
specific healthcare challenges
To arrive at the socio-economic impact 
of mHealth, we started with the view 
that for mHealth to be effective, it needs 
to address the challenges and needs of 
the EU region. We gathered data points 
on relevant challenges such as disease 
incidence, prevalence, disease related 
mortalities and the number of people at 
risk. These healthcare challenges and 
data points were further validated by  
primary interviews with healthcare  
experts in the regions.
Further, to identify the socio-economic 
impact of the disease, we looked 
into parameters like treatment costs 
of each disease in each region and 
the cost burden of early retirement 
and absenteeism caused by those 
diseases. We also looked into disease-
specific hospitalisation frequency and 
hospitalisation days to quantify the socio-
economic challenge.
Identifying the scope of mHealth and 
capturing benefit data 
The relevance of mHealth was 
established against these challenges. 
We identified two broad areas of 
interventions such as solutions across 
the patient pathway and the healthcare 
system strengthening. These two broad 
categories were further sub-divided 
into six areas of intervention– solutions 
across the patient pathways (wellness 
and prevention, diagnosis, treatment 
and monitoring) and healthcare systems 
(emergency response, healthcare practitioner support and healthcare 
systems strengthening).
The following key steps were taken 
to arrive at the quantified healthcare 
benefits of mHealth
•	A relevant population base was 
selected for each condition being 
assessed.
•	The smartphone and basic user 
phone penetration was applied to 
this population to arrive at the total 
potential users of mHealth solutions. 
•	Since mHealth solutions benefit only if 
used regularly, the percentage of total 
potential users who would regularly 
use such mHealth applications was 
determined to arrive at the relevant 
number of mHealth users.
•	Further, the percentage of regular 
mHealth users that could benefit was 
computed for each solution type and 
condition.
•	The potential benefits estimated for 
each solution type and condition were 
then applied to arrive at the overall 
benefit.
Each area and type of benefits of mHealth 
were estimated based on existing studies, 
pilots and expert opinion. 
Arriving at socio-economic estimates
To analyse the benefits across the EU, 
representative countries of the region 
were selected. Multiple criteria such as 
geographic representation, healthcare 
system type and healthcare funding 
systems, were used to identify such representative countries. An economic 
model was then developed to quantify 
healthcare challenges and mHealth 
induced socio-economic benefit in these 
representative countries. 
Extrapolation of socio-economic  
benefits across EU 27 countries
Each benefit type calculated for a 
representative country was then 
extrapolated to the entire EU region. 
•	We created three country groupings, 
each grouping represented by the 
previously selected representative 
country. 
•	Relevant countries were then 
identified and grouped under each 
representative country grouping. 
•	Criteria such as healthcare spend 
as a % to GDP, public and private 
healthcare spend, per capita 
healthcare spend, healthcare system 
type were used to identify and 
group EU27 countries within those 
groupings. 
•	Incidence and disease related 
healthcare benefits were extrapolated 
as per the representative country. 
However, treatment cost savings 
were calculated based on healthcare 
expenditure parity between the focus 
and representative country. 
•	Similarly, while computing increase 
in earnings related benefits, wages 
and taxes in each country were used 
to accurately capture socio-economic 
impact.
Approach to quantify socio-economic benefits
Quantify major health 
challenges in the regionIdentify scope of mHealth Analyse potential benefit 
of mHealthTranslate healthcare 
benefits to socio-
economic benefitsScenario analysis
Area covered •	Data analysis to profile 
healthcare challenges of 
the region
•	Translation of these 
challenges to socio-
economic challenges•	Analysis to identify 
relevant areas for 
mHealth interventions 
based on the challenges
•	Prioritisation of these 
areas based on the 
goals of multiple 
players in the mHealth 
ecosystem of the 
region •	Analyse case studies 
and pilot projects to 
arrive at estimates of 
benefits
•	Conduct primary 
interviews to verify the 
estimates•	Convert the 
healthcare benefits 
to socio-economic 
benefits through 
econometric 
modeling•	Parameters varied 
to under-analyse 
socio-economic 
impact of various 
scenarios of 
mHealth adoption
Source of data •	Primary interview
•	Secondary sources•	PwC analysis
•	Primary interview•	Primary interview
•	Secondary sources•	PwC analysis •	PwC analysis
Logic used for extrapolation
Choose representative countries in each grouping and 
group EU countries in groupingsExtrapolate mHealth benefits
Area covered •	Group EU countries into groupings based on status of 
healthcare systems in various countries•	mHealth benefits from representative country taken as a reference for each 
grouping
•	Corresponding benefits extrapolated for each member country in each grouping
Source of data •	PwC analysis
•	Primary interview
•	Secondary sources•	PwC analysis
About PwC  
PwC* helps organisations and individuals create the value they’re looking for. We’re a network of firms in 158 countries 
with more than 180,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, tax and advisory services. 
PwC India refers to the network of PwC firms in India, having offices in: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, 
Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India’s service offerings, please visit www.pwc.in. 
*PwC refers to PwC India and may sometimes refer to the PwC network. Each member firm is a separate legal entity. Please 
see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. 
You can connect with us on: 
 facebook.com/PwCIndia 
 twitter.com/PwC_IN
 linkedin.com/company/pwc-india
 youtube.com/pwc
Contacts 
Shashank Tripathi
India Leader - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9819678900
Email: shashank.tripathi@in.pwc.com
Mohammad Chowdhury
India Leader - Telecom
Phone:+91 9167665544
Email: mohammad.chowdhury@in.pwc.com
Dr. Rana Mehta
India Leader - Healthcare
Phone:+91 9910511577
Email: rana.mehta@in.pwc.comDavid Wijeratne
Associate Director - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9818966775
Email: david.wijeratne@in.pwc.com 
Lokesh Khanna
Principal Consultant - Strategy and Research
Phone:+91 9711031020
Email: lokesh.khanna@in.pwc.com
Acknowledgments
We would like to take this opportunity to thank all the team members for 
their contribution to the creation and finalisation of this report:
Rohit Shankar
Siddartha Prasad 
Ankur Bharti
Dr. Amit Talwar
Nidhi Jain
pwc.in
This publication does not constitute professional advice. The information in this publication has been obtained or derived from sources believed by PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Private Limited (PwCPL) to be reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information is accurate or complete. Any opinions or estimates contained in this publication 
represent the judgment of PwCPL at this time and are subject to change without notice. Readers of this publication are advised to seek their own professional advice before 
taking any course of action or decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based on the contents of this publication. PwCPL neither accepts or assumes any responsibility or 
liability to any reader of this publication in respect of the information contained within it or for any decisions readers may take or decide not to or fail to take.
© 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (a limited liability company in 
India), which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited (PwCIL), each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
NJ 305 - May 2013 Mhealth.indd
Designed by: PwC Brand and Communications, India
