Title: KPMG global tech report: Technology insights
Date Published: 2025-01-07 15:27:00-03:00
Source: pdfs/kpmg_global-tech-report-tmt-sector-cut-report.pdf.coredownload.inline.pdf
Word Count: 2335
Sentence Count: 182
Average Sentence Length: 19.71

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
kpmg: 121
tech: 91
technology: 38
sector: 36
internationai: 35
globai: 34
telecommunications: 24
digitai: 22
entities: 21
report: 20
approach: 19
esg: 19
key: 18
services: 17
ali: 17
one: 16
help: 16
media: 16
goals: 15
focus: 15

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights KPMG Internationai kpmg. comKPMG. Make the Difference.  ech:  bold sector that innovates while leading  example How KPMG can helpAbout the authors MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. 2Executive summary The digitai transformation journey   important strategic consideration for ali sectors, none more  than technology. This means the tech sector has   two things simultaneously: lead  example and rethink its own strategies. Yet, like ali industries, the tech sector also faces challenges and opportunities  the rapidly evolving tech landscape. For example, the KPMG 2o24 Technology and Telecommunications CEO Outlook showed that,  2o24,  top-three challenge for tech and telecommunications CEOs has been the adoption  generative .  The tech sector  position ahead  other sectors can  attributed  its formula for success. Much  the tech sector  accomplishments are the result  discipline and targeted investments. Through strategic spending decisions, such  the prioritization   and environmentai, sociai and governance ESG activities, the industry has become skilled  protecting its transformation progress from volatility. This and other valuable insights are provided  our Globai Tech Report 2o24  survey  , 45o executives from  countries, including 49o leaders from the tech sector. Tech stands strong against headwinds, but higher expectations for the sector mean that   required  respond with clarity and strategic investments. Executive summary Key findings The tech sector  targeting profitability This year  survey reveals  increase  the number  tech professionals who say that technology has directly improved their organization  profitability over the past  months. Some  the most notable growth  profitability, with increases   percentage points  more, has resulted from efforts  , data and analytics, everything---service XaaS, cyber security and modern delivery. ESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investments Today  tech organizations are recognizing the importance  using tech for good. About three-quarters  tech executives report that their tech investments directly target their sustainability and sociai responsibility goals, surpassing the cross-sector average.  ech sector plans  maintain  democratized approach with  experiments Most sectors are working toward  centralized approach   implementation. But the tech sector plans  continue developing  governance policies and experimentation practices   democratized way   builds more experience  this rapidly developing area.  KPMG 2o24 Technology and Telecommunications CEO Outlook Q1o.  ver the past  months, have your digitai transformation efforts with the following technologies positively impacted your organization  profitability? Those answering yes, there was  increase. Source: KPMG globai tech report 2o24AI and automation including Generative  XaaS technologies including public-  multi-cloud Cyber security Data and analyt icsIncreases  percentage  respondents 2o23 compared  2o24 who replied that their digitai transformation efforts positively impacted theirorganizations' proﬁtability  ﬁve important investment areas  Modern delivery including low  code     How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors Methodology Key recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. The tech sector  targeting profitability The tech sector  targeting profitability Today  macroeconomic and geopoliticai landscape might  turbulent, but tech companies are continuing  fund digitai innovation with confidence and commitment. There are good reasons for this: three-quarters  tech executives  percent say their totai cost  ownership and cost benefit forecasts are usually accurate. Roughly the same proportion say they run calculations  forecast the potentiai value   technology before they invest,  figure that  slightly above the cross-sector average.   result, tech  one  the sectors most likely  our survey  feei confident  its ability  manage expenditure  that hidden costs  not disrupt the digitai transformation. Mark Gibson, Globai Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG Internationai and Line  Business Leader for Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG  the , says  are seeing  shift  how tech companies spend their money.   seeing  much stronger focus  outcomes than  did before, says Gibson.  used   ali about how much they could invest  research and development, but  tech companies mature, priorities are shifting. Gibson says that profitability  paramount  today  economy:    constant seesaw between wanting  invest  innovation and needing  keep costs down. That  why most tech firms are now   journey  targeted investment  key transformation areas. This year  survey shows  increase  the number  tech professionals who say that technology has directly improved their organization  profitability over the past  months. There  notable growth  profitability, with increases   percentage points  more from efforts  , data and analytics, XaaS, cyber security and modern delivery methods. How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors Methodology Key recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. The tech sector  targeting profitability Case study Sierra Wireless Helping  ensure trust  IoT solutions   major globai IoT solutions provider, Sierra Wireless utilizes manufacturing facilities around the world delivering innovative technologies that are enhancing operationai efficiencies and customer experiences for some  the world  leading organizations. The Canadian-based multinationai, which  particularly proud  its nearly -year record  building trusted client relationships across  array  industries, was forced  take decisive action  its operations, including manufacturing, were temporarily disrupted  March 2o21   ransomware attack  the company  internai  systems and corporate website. Sierra Wireless immediately countered the attack turning  KPMG firms cyber-incident response specialists from Canada and the   assist with response and recovery efforts. Sierra Wireless leaders worked closely with KPMG  cyber professionals  resolve the root cause  the ransomware attack and contain and recover the disrupted operations.  part  the larger recovery effort, KPMG  Canada and KPMG  the  were able  prioritize and recover Sierra  manufacturing operations within days.  the wake  the incident, KPMG and Sierra Wireless professionals worked together  enhance Sierra   operations and cyber-security program. Sierra Wireless IoT solutions help customers  industries such  transportation, healthcare, industriai manufacturing, and energy transform and thrive  today  connected economy. The timely actions taken  response  this incident helped maintain the trust  these customers  the security  Sierra Wireless IoT solutions.   tech, employees have high expectations for each  the three areas  ESG. Mark Gibson Globai Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications KPMG Internationai and Line  Business Leader for Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG  the  How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. ESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investments ESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investments Today  tech organizations are recognizing the importance  using tech for good. About three-quarters  tech executives  percent say their tech investments directly target their sustainability and sociai responsibility goals, which  above the cross-sector average. Proportion  tech executives saying their investments target sustainability and sociai goals : Which  the following opposing statements best describes your company  technology optimization activity for the next  months? Source: KPMG globai tech report 2o24And perhaps  direct result  using tech for good  the industry  progress  addressing environmentai, sociai and governance ESG issues.  fact, our recent KPMG 2o24 Technology and Telecommunications CEO Outlook showed that the number  tech and telecommunications CEOs who are confident about reaching their net-zero goals  2o3o has increased from  percent  2o23   percent  2o24.  large part  this optimism comes from the sector  transformation  how data centers are built and run and their impact  the environment. ESG efforts are particularly important  the tech sector  workforce.  Gibson emphasizes,  tech, employees have high expectations for each  the three areas  ESG. Not only  they want  see thoughtfulness around environmentai impact, but they also hold the industry responsible for the way  which information  spread particularly around key sociai and politicai issues. The good news  that KPMG research confirms that tech organizations are taking their employees opinions seriously, with tech being one  the sectors most likely  prioritize tech investments based  employee feedback  percentage points above the globai average. This has important implications for the governance part  ESG  organizations  ork  ensure they have both the right policies  place  address ESG challenges and the ability    voice for their workforce. According  Gibson, the tech sector has  huge responsibility related  cyber protection and the way  which the sector manages and shares information. ESG  about the future  the industry from  people perspective,  says. That  why tech organizations must focus  protecting people  data and having the processes and controls  place  build consumer trust  part  their formulas  getting ESG right. Q24:   does your organization plan  scale its  with governance, trust and cyber security  mind?     Centralizing our approach   experimentation once  have reached  criticai mass  ideas from the workforce for  Democratizing our approach   experimentation   build more experience  the area Totai TechHow tech executives say they plan  scale  within their organizations Source: KPMG globai tech report 2o24 How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved.  ech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments  ech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments Appetite for   growing across ali sectors, and many companies are taking  democratized approach while they encourage their workforces  find new ways  use . But  they scale , while keeping governance, trust and security  the center, most sectors are switching   more centralized approach. Here, the tech sector bucks the trend,  centralization  not  the roadmap. Instead, tech companies plan  maintain their democratized approach   experimentation, while continually developing their  governance policies  they build more experience  the area. Gibson notes,  want everyone   tech company experimenting and using  daily. Yet,   important  balance this with  centralized governance layer  companies have  framework for their workforces  operate within. This should allow tech companies the space  continuously adapt and refine their  strategies while protecting their values, security and customers. According  our KPMG globai tech report 2o24, successfui  implementation wili require the tech sector  take  systemic approach  that  based  cross-functionai effort. From building strategic frameworks  upskilling teams and identifying risks, tech  uniquely positioned  lead the way across this new frontier with confidence. The earlier you appoint  chief artificiai intelligence officer CAIO, the easier    shape and coordinate the transformation before business units and functions have invested  similar capabilities.  addition, first movers may secure scarce CAIO talent  the externai  internai market before they become even more  demand.   KPMG globai tech report 2o24  KPMG  Leading the charge   Key recommendations How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insightsKey recommendations  lead  example while fostering innovation, tech executives should: Prioritize trust and security  the initiai phases  designing solutions. With tech rapidly evolving, designing and building solutions   responsible way  now more important than ever. Including cyber security experts  the start  every project can enhance trust and protect brand reputation.  can also help minimize the risk  data breaches and the need for costly retrofitting  security fixes. Turn ESG into  competitive advantage  implementing embedded strategies that address environmentai and sociai risks while capitalizing  commerciai opportunities.  technology plays  cruciai role   integrating ESG into strategic processes, the tech sector has  opportunity  thrive and make  reai difference  this space.   ,  needs  improve its own processes while also building solutions that help other sectors  better. Lead successfui  adoption  ensuring that ali departments work together and  value  communicated clearly and with  strong connection  departmentai business objectives.  help the sector move beyond the  hype, KPMG has identified five key areas for organizations  focus : delivering value, unlocking capabilities, building trust, scaling with confidence and architecting transformation. Our globai tech report elaborates  each  these.  line with the KPMG 2o24 Technology and Telecommunications CEO Outlook , this research shows that there  optimism about growth  the tech sector.  navigate new technologies such  generative  alongside environmentai and economic challenges, tech companies wili have  remain disciplined and strategic during their transformation journeys.  Tech-driven ESG: Navigating risks with precision  KPMG 2o24 Technology and Telecommunications CEO Outlook How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. How KPMG can help KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insightsTransformation   ongoing journey There   quick fix for today  business challenges. Major changes are commonplace and often happen  parallei, involving more stakeholders, with more  risk and more complex decision-making required. Ali this can put relentless pressure  you, your people and your broader ecosystem. This journey  constant change  unpredictable, but how you approach  should not . The KPMG Transformation Journey helps you navigate these shifting end points, helping you  deliver the results that matter. But the journey doesn  end here.  combine advanced technology, -depth experience and operationai excellence  continually evolve your processes, working   subscription---service basis. With KPMG Managed Services,  help you create nimble, scalable business functions that evolve  you grow and pivot quickly amid changing priorities. That  how  accelerate and sustain your transformation journey and stay ahead  competitors while helping minimize disruption and risk. Learn more. ESG KPMG,   globai organization, knows the intrinsic power  ESG  transform your business, and KPMG professionals can show you how  enhance trust, mitigate risk and unlock new value  you transform and work  build  sustainable future. Our services are holistic and practicai, and  are able  guide your teams  drive sustainable innovation across your organization. Through industry-leading expertise, data-driven technology and globai alliances, KPMG professionals experience across criticai ESG issues means  can assist you  creating the right roadmap for your journey, putting ESG  the core  your operations where  should . Learn more. You can with   the  era, anything seems possible untapped value, constant innovation, new frontiers. Especially with  knowledgeable guide  your side.  help clients harness the power and potentiai  . From strategy  implementation. Smali steps  helping solve seemingly impenetrable problems. Underpinned  trust. You can discover endless opportunities with . Let KPMG show you how. Learn more. KPMG Trusted  Framework KPMG Trusted  Framework can help with designing, building, deploying, and using  tech solutions   responsible and ethicai manner, seeking  accelerate value with confidence. Learn more. Methodology More than  countries territories:  Americas  Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA  Asia Paciﬁc ASPAC organizations with annuai revenues above  1oo million. How KPMG can help Executive summaryAbout the authors The tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. Methodology The technology sector perspectives  the KPMG globai tech report 2o24 draws  the views  49o technology leaders. Survey respondents represented  diverse group  tech leaders, such  chief digitai officers, CIOs, CTOs, CISOs, chief  officers, and others. were board members  members   the -suite. held director  senio  manager levei positions. About the authors How KPMG can help Executive summary MethodologyThe tech sector  targeting profitabilityKey recommendationsESG goals are  key focus for tech  digitai investmentsTech firms plan  keep  democratized approach with  experiments KPMG globai tech report:  echnology insights 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. About the authors Mark Gibson Globai Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG Internationai and Line  Business Leader for Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG  the  Mark  the Globai Head and the  Sector Leader for Technology, Media, and Telecommunications TMT and also serves  the Globai Lead Partner for  KPMG  the  firm client that  one  the largest technology companies  the world. Previously,  served  the Office Managing Partner  the Seattle office  KPMG  the  from 2o11  2o2o. During his -year career,  has worked with clients  the telecommunications, technology, consumer products and retaii industries, and now collaborates with TMT teams across audit, tax and advisory  over  different countries. Anna Scally Partner, Internationai Tax TMT Sector Lead for KPMG  EMA KPMG  Ireland Anna   Internationai Tax Partner  KPMG Ireland. She  also KPMG  Technology, Media and Telecoms TMT Sector Leader  EMA. She has also led KPMG  Ireland  Fintech practice. Anna has  years experience  partner levei advising Irish and internationai companies  tax matters, including  , financing, group structuring,  ,  and internationai tax matters. Anna  clients include companies  the technology, media, telecommunications, fintech, pharmaceuticai and life sciences sectors. She  also passionate about innovation and scaling ambitious start-ups, and advises  number  earlystage companies  fundraising, shareholding arrangements, rewarding founders, incentivizing employees and growing globai operations. Atui Gupta Partner and Head Digitai Trust and Cyber KPMG  India Atui   Partner with Consulting Services, KPMG India and leads the Digitai Trust Practice.   also  leader for Cyber  the TMT industry. Atui has more than  years  experience  technology consulting with  deep focus  cyber and digitai trust covering strategy, governance, large-scale transformation, automation  scale, -led self-healing solutions, championing Trusted  Framework and establishing resilient and trusted organizations. Atui  experience  across  wide range  industries, including Telecom, Financiai Services, Technology, Energy and Industriai Markets, across globai geographies. Atui has also worked with KPMG  the  Silicon Valley.   passionate about growth and development  the digitai trust domain and has been actively contributing  the development and progress  the profession  associating with multiple industry forums. Contacts Mark Gibson Globai Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG Internationai and Line  Business Leader for Technology, Media Telecommunications, KPMG  the  : mgibson kpmg. com Joe Cassidy Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications KPMG  the  : joe. cassidy kpmg. . ukDaniei Chan Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications KPMG China : daniei. chan kpmg. com Simon Dubois Nationai Sector Lead, Technology KPMG Australia : sdubois kpmg. com. auAtui Gupta Partner and Head Digitai Trust and Cyber, KPMG  India : atulgupta kpmg. comRichard Hanley  Sector Leader, Technology KPMG  the  : rhanley kpmg. com Katja Modder Head  Technology, Media Telecommunications KPMG  Germany : katjamodder kpmg. com Anuj Madan Audit Nationai Industry Leader, Technology, Media Telecommunications KPMG  Canada : amadan kpmg. caAnna Scally Technology, Media Telecommunications Sector Leader  EMA KPMG  Ireland : anna. scally kpmg.  Diogo Sousa Telecommunications Lead KPMG  Portugai : sousa kpmg. com Some  ali  the services described herein may not  permissible for KPMG audit clients and their affiliates  related entities. kpmg. com The information contained herein    generai nature and  not intended  address the circumstances  any particular individuai  entity. Although  endeavor  provide accurate and timely information, there can   guarantee that such information  accurate   the date   received  that  wili continue   accurate  the future.  one should act  such information without appropriate professionai advice after  thorough examination  the particular situation. 2o25 Copyright owned  one  more  the KPMG Internationai entities. KPMG Internationai entities provide  services  clients. Ali rights reserved. KPMG refers  the globai organization   one  more  the member firms  KPMG Internationai Limited KPMG Internationai, each  which   separate legai entity. KPMG Internationai Limited   private English company limited  guarantee and does not provide services  clients. For more details about our structure please visit kpmg. com governance. The KPMG name and logo are trademarks used under license  the independent member firms  the KPMG globai organizationKPMG  participation and contribution  this regard  not  endorsement, sponsorship  implied backing  any company  products  services. Throughout this document, , KPMG,  and our refers  the KPMG globai organization,  KPMG Internationai Limited KPMG Internationai, and   one  more  the member firms  KPMG Internationai, each  which   separate legai entity. Designed  Evalueserve. Publication name: KPMG globai tech report: Technology insights Publication number: 139743- Publication date: January 2o25