Title: pwc_pwc_5th_annual_digital_iq_survey
Date Published: 2013-05-31 11:00:31+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_pwc_5th_annual_digital_iq_survey.pdf
Word Count: 1686
Sentence Count: 135
Average Sentence Length: 20.59

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
pwc: 43
india: 42
digitai: 38
survey: 29
business: 27
technologies: 23
data: 23
mobile: 21
companies: 20
technology: 18
cloud: 17
story: 15
ali: 15
indian: 14
respondents: 14
employees: 14
annuai: 13
organisation: 13
globai: 12
sociai: 11

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey When the going gets tough, the digitai get going The India story May 2o13 PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  . The GDP growth  India  estimated    the financiai year ending March 2o13  the Government  India Advanced estimates  nationai income, 2o12- . Swiss , sigma   2o12 . The new digitai economy, How wili  transform business  research paper produced  Oxford Economics  collaboration with PwC, SAP, Citi, Cisco and   . Through the looking glass, Emerging trends, PwC India, January 2o13 PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  survey findings: Strengthening your digitai conversations PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  survey findings: Strengthening your digitai conversationsBusiness leaders  India are facing radicai changes  economic and market structures. While they were adapting  the constant volatility  globai economies, our domestic growth settled into the lowest rate  the decade this year .  the other hand, the number  disruptions, both naturai and manmade, has increased  the last four decades around the globe . Notwithstanding the unprecedented changes, the need  navigate through pitfalls and disruptions, businesses are striving  achieve the core objectives  fostering growth, meeting disparate consumer needs, reaching out  markets, compete and succeed.  such times, speeding  the adoption  key technologies like sociai networks, Digitai    measure  how weli companies understand the value  technology and weave  into the fabric  their organisation. mobile computing, analytics, cloud computing SMAC and other emerging technologies wili transform businesses and accelerate wealth creation, especially  the emerging markets economies3. For instance, leading firms have started using digitai ecosystems  take advantage  disruptions and information  create significant economic and competitive value4. The India cut  the PwC  Annuai Digitai  survey   reflection  this trend.  evaluates how enterprises are riding the digitai wave  engage more effectively with their cruciai stakeholders, fine-tune their operationai effectiveness and strengthen risk management strategies. PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  Demystifying SMAC Trends What does  ? Relationship with work Cloud The cloud increasingly contains more  the information and applications that people use Where   the work Mobile Mobile devices give people access  the cloud,  other data sources, and  each otherHow  get  work Analytics Analytics help them make actionable sense  ali that data What  work , the meaning  work Sociai Sociai media helps people reach out  colleagues and customer and provides insights about their preferencesWho  work with Source: Through the looking glass, PwC India, Emerging trends, January 2o13How strong  the digitai   Indian organisations?  presented respondents with different scenarios  gauge  they  realised the importance  these technologies and aligned them closely  their overali organisationai growth objectives. This  because companies can gain only through  systematic engagement with these technologies.  found that business leaders are actively involved  spearheading initiatives  technology, have  strong -suite collaboration and consider themselves digitally astute. Digitally astute When asked about the levei  their digitai involvement,   the Indian firms described their organisation  digitally astute. This  more than their  and  counterparts   and  respectively. Perhaps more interesting  the fact that ali Indian firms with strong -suite collaboration described their organisation  digitally astute. This indicates that -suite alignment   important characteristic for any company striving for  high digitai . PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  Indian firms emerge  highly digitally astute  what extent would you describe your organisation  digitally astute? India85  Australia54 USA69 UK62 Russia  China45 Japan  and business  complementary factors  effective technology strategy cannot  created   vacuum.   vitai for the CIO  collaborate with the -suite while chalking out  roadmap. The starting point  such  activity  planning and Indian companies are increasingly working  these lines  having  multi-year roadmap for business strategies along with  plan  link   overali business practices. Among the survey participants,  said they have  single, multi-year roadmap  compared   across the rest  the world. Additionally,  leaders    the companies share the same detailed understanding  the corporate strategy  their business leaders. Our survey also found that  one out  every three Indian enterprises, the CIO has  strong relationship with other members across the -suite: CEO, CFO, CMO, CRO, CSO, CISO, and business unit leaders. These -suite relationships are  indication  the shift  perception  Indian companies with respect  ; from support and cost centre   business catalyst. Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  Rest  the World   Yes  Don' knowDon' know  Yes  IndiaPlanning  criticai for collaboration Does  single, multi-year roadmap for the overali business strategy, exist within your organisation? Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India storyBusiness leaders drive  efforts  strong   the respondents agree that either their CEO  senior-most business leader   active champion   usage. The leaders active involvement  including    part  strategic dialogue  likely  ensure that there   organisation-wide understanding  the costs needed  implement such strategies. And this understanding  important  the accurate estimation  expenses and the consequent profit margins. They  thinking and acting together Business and  leaders share the same detailed understanding  the corporate strategyCEO  senior-most business leader   active champion  the use  information technology  achieve our strategyChina UKUSAIndia          believe that technology plays  cruciai role  amplifying the performance  any business.  company that continuously adopts technology, masters  and drives business integration  likely  have  sustainable advantage over its peers  the market. . PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  survey findings: Strengthening your digitai conversations PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  How are companies using these technologies  advance their business objectives? The panellists  PwC India  CFO Conclave last year, discussed how the forces  SMAC sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud wili help organisations ride the digitai wave, manage their consumer chain and help unlock value for their stakeholders. Outperformers wili have  distinct advantage  they wili  more adept  converting data into insights. Equipped with these insights, they can develop products and services for specific customer segments and craft personalised marketing messages.   not surprising then  see that the respondents  the Digitai  survey are using these technologies  reach out  some  their most significant stakeholders, customers and employees and are making significant investments   . The advent  these technologies  also helping them fine tune the operationai effectiveness  companies. Indian companies are investing weli  emerging technologies Which  the technologies are you currently investing ?                 Sociai media for internai communicationsSociai media for externai communications with customers, suppliers Mobile technologies for employeesMobile technologies for customersData mining and analysisPublic cloud applicationsPublic cloud infrastructurePrivate cloud Rest  the world India Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story New ways  reaching customers Companies are competing  understand customer needs and responses. Many have been dependent  traditionai tools like market research and competitive benchmarking. However, these tools decipher mass, and not case-specific, consumer behaviour. And , many companies are now venturing  explore new marketing platforms. Sociai media Data now sits outside ERP systems and  multiple public spaces. Mining sociai media sites, blogs, consumer reviews and other such data sources   new tooi  find out what individuai customers think and want. This  highlighted  the fact that   Indian organisations are presently investing  sociai media for externai communications with customers and suppliers. This  more than the globai average  . They also expect the use  sociai media  increase substantially over the next  months. Facebook  seems   the most preferred platform followed  LinkedIn  and Twitter . Facebook  the most preferred medium  India  you expect the usage  each sociai media  your organisation for business purposes  increase, decrease  stay the same  the next  months? respondents who answered increase Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story Big data and analytics Data collected from various such sources  generally unstructured and  referred   big data.    characterisation  the never-ending accumulation  ali kinds  data, most   unstructured.  describes data sets that are growing exponentially and are too large, too raw,  too unstructured for analysis using relationai data analysis Indian organisations are realising the importance  big data. Our survey results indicate that around every two out  three respondents believe that harnessing big data wili give their organisations  competitive edge. Once again, this figure  more than the  , the    weli  the globai average .         Facebook LinkedIn Twitter XING India Rest  the world . Technology forecast: -Making sense  big data, 2o1o Issue  PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  This sea  unstructured information can provide  insights into the pulse  consumer demand and trends, once   simplified through analytics into actionable strategies. Analytics combined with  comprehensive sociai media strategy wili become  criticai competitive requirement for companies  -create new products with various stakeholders, improve customer service and reduce cost.  our survey,   the respondents are investing  data mining and analysis technologies; more than their counterparts  the , the , China and Japan. Big data, big benefits  what extent  you agree  disagree with the following statements Harnessing Big data wili give  organisation  competitive edge    - - - -  IndiaRest  the world Disagree Strongly disagree Agree Agree strongly Don' know Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story Mobile technologies Companies have also been increasing the use  mobile technologies  understand and meet customer needs. While, our survey results indicated that   Indian firms are interacting with customers using mobile technology, the response  only  for the ,  for the ,  for Australia and  for Japan. What  interesting  that  terms  investment,   Indian firms are investing  mobile technologies for customers. Reaching customers through mobile technology  what extent  your organisation interacting with customers using mobile technology?             Don' knowNot  ali significantlyNot very significantlyNeither norQuite significantlyVery significantly Rest  the World India Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story Empowering employees The CEO  Apple, Tim Cook, has remarked that   Fortune 5oo firms have either already given iPads  their staff  are  the process  arranging iPads for them7. Though not ali companies would like  believe   similar practice, most  them would not mind  employees use their own phones  mobile devices without posing  threat  the security and integrity  the workplace. Reinforcing  similar argument, PwC,  one  its studies, states that when employees with smartphones can download apps and  their jobs better than the tools provided  the office  department,  becomes important for companies  execute mobile strategies keeping employees  mind Employees   company are the single-most important direct touch-points for consumers. They work towards organisationai objectives  engaging with customers, intensely and constantly and sometimes across varied geographies. ,  was not surprising  see  our survey, that most companies have not only realised this aspect, but are also equipping their employees with mobile technologies. Naturally,   the companies are planning  invest  mobile technologies for employees. Around   the companies are building required capabilities using the help  third parties. However,  feei that their employees are already equipped with the required mobile technology  deliver products and services. . Seizing the mobility moment Part , PwC, September 2o12 . Ibid PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India story  Employees equipped with mobile technology How equipped are the employees  your organisation  deliver products and services using mobile technology?             Don' knowWe have nothing  present but have  needWe have nothing  present, but recognise  needWe have some things  need and are building the rest ourselves  have some things  need and are primarily using 3rd parties  build the rest  have everything  need   mobile platform India Rest  the World Base: Ali respondents , 1o8; India  Source: PwC  5th Globai Digitai  Survey -The India story Improving operationai efficiency SMAC and other emerging technologies create the possibility  gains  operationai efficiency. For instance, cloud computing has the potentiai  accelerate business innovation, improve business agility and reduce costs. Leading organisations are realising that cloud computing  far more than  sophisticated  solution.    fact  better business solution. Indian organisations are investing  cloud computing technologies more than their counterparts  the , the , China and Australia. While   Indian organisations are investing  private cloud,  and  are investing  public cloud infrastructure and public cloud applications respectively. Private cloud can also  instrumentai  ensuring data security, protecting consumer data and intellectuai property. Employees equipped with mobile technology How equipped are the employees  your organisation  deliver products and services using mobile technology? Nurture and facilitate innovation Faster time  deliver concept  market Simplification  conducting business Increased velocity  processes Faster and informed decision making Adaptive  changing business environmentEmerging technology trends Cloud computingMobilitySociai media Big data analyticsLet  begin our digitai conversation The survey gives   insight into the efforts  companies that are trying  embed   ali areas  their business. Companies are engaging with technology   systematic way and are forming  comprehensive  strategy through collaboration. However, while moving towards higher digitai , companies are grappling with  number  questions. Here are  few based  our conversations with the executives. How can  better align with changing economic and market structures, volatility  the globai economies and evolving business needs? Are you aware  the ways  understand and adopt emerging technologies, which wili make you competitive? Are you effectively equipped  gather, understand and act  data about customers and employees and protect intellectuai property  the same time? What are the implications  moving   cloud computing service modei from  accounting and tax perspective? Are you prepared with new data management and storage technologies needed  reap the benefits  big data? Are you equipped  seize business value from SMAC, over and above its  benefits? Are you actively involved  developing your organisation  digitai ?  you champion the cause    your organisation? How can you exploit strategic opportunities while managing business risks? Are  investments being made with overarching business goals  mind,  are these decisions happening   silo?  the  strategy communicated effectively within the organisation? About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc  have  deeper conversation about how topics related  digitai  may affect your business, please contact: Debdas Sen Technology Consulting Leader   44o4 64o4 Ritesh Pai   44o4 32o4 ritesh. pai . pwc. comTapobrata Das Roy   6669 1418 tapobrata. das. roy . pwc. comArnab BasuExecutive Director, Emerging Technologies   2341 429o Rajesh Rajan Associate Director, Emerging Technologies   4o79 4oo3 Authors pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  5o9 - May 2o13 PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India