Title: pwc_automobiles-the-economic-outlook-and-employment-situation
Date Published: 2013-09-10 15:30:29+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_automobiles-the-economic-outlook-and-employment-situation.pdf
Word Count: 3426
Sentence Count: 373
Average Sentence Length: 14.74

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
industry: 50
sales: 50
vehicle: 41
growth: 38
auto: 33
automotive: 32
market: 31
million: 30
india: 29
demand: 26
vehicles: 24
source: 22
production: 21
economic: 20
new: 19
year: 19
pwc: 17
units: 17
first: 16
expected: 16

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  Automobiles: The  conomic outlook and employment situation August 2o13 PwC Page    Globai Situation Through the first half  2o13, globally, the automotive industry has provided mixed signals, with significant investments announced  some markets being countered  ongoing cuts  others. While regions such  the  eveloping Asia -Pacific . 24m illion and more and North America 77o thousand and more have contributed heavily, the  eveloped Asia -Pacific less than 859 thousand  expected  witness continued decline  assembly  localised abroad. Meanwhile, the world has been forced  wait for the European Union less than 5oo thousand  make its long -awaited reboun , not expected untii early 2o14,  best. Long -term projections expect these markets  stabili  and with continued investment  developing regions, they are forecast  drive annuai globai light vehicle assembly past the 1oo million plateau for the first time ever, reaching   million units  2o17 with  impressive compound annuai growth rate CAGR  . . Source: Autofacts Ever since the globai economic crisis  2oo8 -2oo9, the auto industry, globally has witnessed economic restructuring whose macro and micro -economic implications  nations and regions has been profound. There are severai short - and long -term factors that contributed  the crisis. While the sudden collapse  sales  severai markets was  short -term one-  two -year timeframe challenge for almost ali automakers, loss  market share  increasing competition  their domestic markets was another key challenge for automakers over the long term five  seven years. Challenges faced  globai automakers currently include the following: Labour costs for workforce both current and retireesinclud ing wages, health insurance and pens ions retirees Drop  industriai productivity due  lack  capitai investment, ambiguous and dated labour laws Product quality issues due  faulty component parts, etc. Share -diminishing competition  new cars, mis- match   xisting product strategy for  market .  presence only   few segments  the market  region Lack    improvisations  existing and the future product Ageing  population and its impact  demand for new cars Environmentai concerns such  globa  warming, climate change and sustainability, both positive  negative depending  how these are addressed Slowdown  demand due  development  mass transit  alternative form  travei models  severai Regionai Contribution  Growth 2o12 -2o19 percentage share .  North America .  South America6.  East Europe .  European Union .  Developing Asia -Pacific -.  Developed Asia -Pacific .  Middle East Africa PwC Page    new urban areas. These urban transport system  are likely  change the way people commute  the future.  provide  brief review  the changes now underway  both developed , Germany and Japan and developing automotive markets Brazii, Thailand along with  brief review  the contributions  the auto industry  the nationai economies  these select countries.  then outline the changes taking place  the Indian industry and the remediai actions needed  meet employment needs  the Indian auto industry  future. The current state  the  automotive industry The  sales and North American assembly markets continue  enjoy  renaissance  sorts, with numbers approaching pre -recession levels. The demand for new vehici   the   leading the way; with  combination   aged fleet, new models, and attractive financing. The  economy continues    headwind, but has yet  slow down demand. The  sales market continues  recover from its recessionary lows and  forecast  reach .  million units  2o13, the first time the market wili have eclipsed the  -million mark since 2oo7. While sales have rebound faster than anticipated, Autofacts stili believes sales wili settle  the range   million   million for the remainder  the decade.  consumers are also continuing  downsize their vehicles  high gas prices and rising MSRPs make smaller cars fiscally attractive  both fronts. Engines are also downsizing  consumers are finding the same performance and higher MPGs  smaller displacement engines. Transmissions are growing however  eight -, nine -, and  -speed gearboxes are equipped and are further set  improve the fuei economy. Even luxury carmakers who have long pushed larger vehicles are beginning   smali  the . : Automotive dashboard Historicai ranges  current trending Source: Automotive News, EIA, Oxford Economics, Autofacts analysis Economic contribution Not since the early 197os has the auto industry seen the levels  growth  has recently experienced three straight years   least  increases  -- sales.  That  especially good news for  country where one  every  private -sector job  dependent  the auto industry.  While the automotive industry represents three  .   the nation  GDP, their outsized impact reverberates across the country. Last year,  report   leading globai financiai services company found that nearly one -third  the country' entire economic  owth was connected  auto sales.  Preliminary Bureau  Labo  Statistics BLS numbers show motor vehicle and parts manufacturing employment    its highest point  over four years, reaching 789, 8oo  March 2o13.  Additionai research found that the motor vehicle industry has the highest number  production worker hours and production worker wages, paying out nearly  billion USD annually.  Employment  motor vehicle and parts dealers recently reached  four -year high. The BLS preliminary report estimated almost .  million dealer jobs  March 2o136. Overali, from January 2o11  January 2o13, motor vehicle and parts manufacturing added more than , ooo jobs,  David Phillips, "Automakers Close Out 2o12 Strong  Dec. Volume Rises , " Automotive News,     Kicking Tires, ". . Auto Sales Propelled The Economy  2o12, " blogs. cars. com, Accessed,   2o13  "Auto Sales Powered 2o12 Recovery, www. upi. com, Accessed,   2o13  Bureau  Labo  Statistics, " Employment, Hours, and Earnings from the Current Employment Statistics survey Nationai, " Accessed,     2o11 Ann uai Survey  Manufactures, Accessed   2o13  Bureau  Labo  Statistics, " Employment, Hours, and Earnings from the Current Employment Statistics survey Nationai, " Accessed   2o13 SAAR Interest Rates Reai Gas Prices Reai GDP Unemployment New Housing SAARAUTOMOTIVE ECONOMIC Historicai Range Normai Range   -Month Trend and Current Reading7.  .  .  .  .  .  -.  .  .  .  478 249411.  .  .  .  .  .  -.  .  .  .  1o7o 18667.  .  .  . 6215.  PwC Page    while motor vehicle and parts dealers added over , ooo jobs during the same period.  : Employees  automotive industry Mar  2oo3 - 2o13 millions Source: Alliance  Automotive manufacturers Trade balance Apart from production and sales, exports have also propei led the industry  the . Exports  motor vehicles and parts grew  more than  from 2o11   ali -time high  132.  billion USD  2o12  NAICS basis . According  the  Department  Commerce  2o12 report   nternationai trade, the auto industry  one  the leading exporters.  : Trade  automotive parts 2oo2 -2o12 USD billions Source:  Census Bureau Market outlook Despite nebulous macroeconomic conditions   whole, the auto industry continues  outperform and  helping drive  outsized portion  overali economic growth.  Bureau  Labo  Statistics, " Automotive Industry: Employment, Earnings, and Hours, " Accessed   2o13  Department  Commerce, Internationai Trade Administration, " . . Export Fact Sheet  Department  Commerce, Internationai Trade Administration, " . . Export Fact Sheet, "   ; Mark Doms, Department  Commerce Chief Economist, Economics Statistics Administration, The Commerce Blog, ". . Manufacturing Continues  Create Jobs  The , " Economic performance   anticipated  remain constrained through the remainder  2o13 before gaining momentum  2o14  support continued growth  new vehicle demand. Sales growth  expected  remain strong throughout the second half  2o13 despite slow economic indicat ors. Strong product launches, historically low financing rates and  average fleet age now pushing  years should ali help sustain this increase. The  uli-year  sales figures are expected   around .  million,  .  increase from 2o12.  key regionai manufacturing trend that has piqued industry interest  the three -crew  the --12o shift pattern implemented  select  plants  help meet excess demand. This work routine has three crews working two shifts   hours for six days  week. These shifts allow plants  produce more vehicles without reducing downtime for higher utilisation and efficiency. Another key trend that continues   monitor   the increased locali sation  vehicle assembly within North America. This   rimarily being driven  Asian OEMs looking  reduce the risk  currency volatility. European manufacturers are seen   seeking  more stable and growing environment. Most  the forecast growth  North America wili  due  these new plants comin  online. Given sustained sales growth and positive results  the region, the assembly now  anticipated  reach .  million units for 2o13. : Assembly and sales market share  OEM type 2oo -2o13 millions Source: Autofacts  data release, Automotive News Current state  the market  Germany Germany quickly recovered from the economic slump  2oo9. With  GDP increase  . , the economy experienced  strong growth dynamic  2o1o.  the second quarter  2o1o alone, Germany  GDP expanded .  .  .  .  . 99o. 88o.  .  .  .  . 791.  .  .  . 911.  .  .  . 631. 691.  .  . 511. 522. 533.  2oo3 2oo4 2oo5 2oo6 2oo7 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 Mar- Manufacturing Dealers           2oo3 2oo4 2oo5 2oo6 2oo7 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13  Assembly New Dom. Assembly  Market Share  -Axis New Dom. Market Share  -Axis PwC Page     . , the strongest quarter -onquarter growth since reunification  199o. After the distortions created  the scrappage scheme  2oo9 and 2o1o, the German market has been more resilient than much  the rest  Europe due   better economic performance. However, declining consumer and business confidence through 2o12 and weakening economic growth have resulted  deteriorati  new car demand over the past year. Germany  the largest new car market  the  and EFTA, typicai  accounting for over   ali new car demand. The market was very strong  the first quarter  2o12, with the SAAR running  over .  million units. However,  concerns about the Eurozone grew and exports slowed, confidence levels and the German  conomy weakened. Demand feli   further .   the first quarter  2o13 with fewer selling days and  strong first quarter  2o12 exaggerating the fali.  expected,  was better with  decline  just . . However, given that the GfK consumer index recorded its highest reading  June since September 2oo7, the market remains stubbornly weak. Part  the explanation could lie with consumers deferring purchases untii after the elections  September, which could result   relatively strong fourth quarter. Economic contribution Germany witnessed  major increase  productivity for the last decade. While the unit labour costs  the rest  Europe increased, Germany  labour costs decreased    yearly average  .  for the period 2oo4  2o11 making both the country  economy  weli  its manufacturing more competitive. With  workforce  over  million people,   one  the largest ready labour market   the . Nearly   this workforce has received formai vocationai training     academic degree. One  the key reasons for having  highly skilled workforce  its unique duai education system, where students get benefits  classroom based learning coupled with -the-job training over  period  two  three years. Over 35o occupations are recogni sed  the system whose strict training standards are set  the German Chambers  Industry and Commerces IHKs across the country. : Annuai average labour cost growth  the economy   whole 2oo -2o11 percentage Source: Eurostat 2o12  Aprii 2o13, the German automotive industry had  regular workforce  75o, 5oo higher than .  these, 43o, 1oo were employed  the  anufacturer group  motor vehicles and engines, , 4oo  the  anufacturer group  trailer , bodies and buses and 289, ooo  the manufacturer group III parts and accessories. This means that the increase  employment observed since January 2o11  continuing. Each month since the beginning  2o11 has brought -- growth.  According    OECD report11  2o11, some 517, ooo students  more than 42o universities embarked   course  academic study. Technicai fields  study experienced  undergraduate enrollment levei increase  more than . Germany  share  university students   the sciences, mathematics, computer sciences, and engineering  the third highest  the , with   ali students. German universities have introduced postgraduate and undergraduate degrees for improved internationai acceptance and comparison.  VDA Press release -German automotive industry maintains its course despite economic difficulties -accessed    2o13  German Trade and Invest -Economic report .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Slovak Rep. HungaryPolandCzech Rep. UKSpainNetherlandsFranceGermany PwC Page    Germany: Workforce  Germany based  professionai education 2o11 Percentage Source: Federai Statistics Office, 2o11 Trade balance Germany: Foreign trade 2oo9, 2o1o and 2o11 EUR billions Source: German Trade and Invest, 2o12 Market outlook Despite near -record lows  unemployment and  six -year high  consumer confidence, results have been lukewarm  best  2o13. New vehicle demand feli  .   June, and .  YTD. The upcoming elections  September may  cause for deferring any large purchases,   improvement  sales  quite possible    this year. Given the listless state  affairs  the region,  marginai decrease  sales demand  anticipated for new vehicles   with  slight growth expected    the regionai levei. Select countries and OEMs are found   struggling  keep  with demand while others battled overcapacity. The slightly improved demand outlook  cause for confidence that the worst has passed with  elect German OEMs planning additionai production days through the summer holiday, while other OEMs are increasing their output  top -selling models. Moderate growth  expected for 2o14, though continued austerity measures wili likely confine the strength  market recovery. Current state  the industry  Japan Demand  Japan remains lower  2o13 after the eco -car cash incentive ended  September 2o12. Consumers may  enticed  make big -ticket purchases before sales tax increases from      rii 2o14. Sales could thus see  upswing towards the end  the year and into  2o14. Hybrid vehicles and mini vehicles are increasingly becoming popular  Japan, fuelled  the recent cash and -going tax incentives. Competitions  these two segments are expected   more intense  2o13  new key models wili  introduced from various automakers towards the end  the year. The yen has weakened against the  dollar over the last severai months, translating into  positive financiai effect for Jap anese automakers. Yet,   stili stronger than the optimai levei. Some automakers have adjusted their manufacturing strategy  order  keep high volume program mes  Japan untii demands become much higher for those models  key overseas market . Econo mic contribution Automobiles are the focus   extremely wide range  industriai and related activity, from materials supply and vehicle production  sales, servicing, freight shipping and other auto -centered operations. Auto -related employment  Japan  present amounts  .  million people.   Motor Industry  Japan,  Japanese Automotive Manufacturers Association Unskilled  Skilled Craftsmen, ,  University Graduates  Vocationai College  PwC Page    Japan: Functionai distribution  human resources  auto and auto component suppliers Trade balance Japan  gross exports  2o12 decreased  .  from the previous year, while gross imports rose  . .  value terms, automotive exports grew .  from 2o11  .  trillion yen, with motor vehicle and parts exports rising but motorcycle exports falling. Automotive imports also increased,  .  --  .  trillion  , with both motor vehicle and parts imports showing growth. Japan: Exports  principai commodity 2o12, FOB value x1o billion yen Japan: Imports  principai commodity 2o12, CIF value x1o billion yen Source: Japan Automotive Manufacturers Association Market outlook Japanese domestic light vehicle sales continued  struggle  the first five months  2o13, even  monetary and fiscai policies seem   reviving the country  economy. Aprii showed signs  hope with slight growth  , the first positive result sin  September  2o12 when PwC Page    government -funded cash incentives ended. However, May sales numbers returned   downward trend and the overali contraction  expected  carry through the remainder  the year. Consumers may  enticed  make big-ticket purch ases before the sales tax increases from     Aprii 2o14,  sales could see  upswing towards the end  the year and into  2o14. Although the yen has relatively weakened Japanese automakers are expected  locali  more assembly volumes oversea   order  avoid risks  currency fluctuations. Therefore, excess capacity should   major issue  Japan.  the mid  long term, this region  expected  see assembly volume decline due   combination  continuing assembly transfers  overse  and stagnant domestic markets. Japanese automakers have started announcing their capacity reduction plans, yet the regionai utili sation  expected  remain below  which can lead  further capacity reduction. Current state  industry  Brazii The Brazilian auto sector has experienced incredible growth  the last few years now representing the fourth largest sales market globally. However this growth has drawn attention  the weakness  its locai assembly  evidenced  increasing reliance  imports  meet demand. From 2oo5  2o11, the market averaged  annuai growth while imports witnessed  staggeri  growth   annuai growth rate.  2o11, imports represented nearly  domestic sales. First effects  the financiai crisis were felt during the contraction  the economy  the beginning  2o12.  revive the economy and stimulate consumption, the Brazilian government adopted  package  measures for few sectors including the automotive sector known for its dynamic effects  the other sectors  the economy. Some  those measures include the following: Reduction  excise tax IPI  the pur chase  cars and light commerciai vehicles  addition   reduction  the tax  financiai transactions IOF  loans  individuals from .   .   year. While .  litre vehicles   their excise tax reduced from   zero, vehicles with engin  between  and  litres had their excise tax reduction from   .  for vehicles with flex fuei technology and from .  .  gasoline. Thus  both cases, excise duty was reduced  half. Also, the excise duty  light commerciai vehicles was red uced from   . This resulted   surge  vehicle sales between June and December which helped the industry close recover from  slump  .  before the measures being implemented,  close the year with  growth  . . After the introduction   everai different versions  the Innovar Auto legislation and negotiations with industry participants, the Brazilian government passed  decree  October 2o12, paving the way for Inovar policy  take effect from 2o13 onwards. Brazii: Inovar auto policy Qualifications and incentives for importers Brazii: Inovar Auto Policy Qualifications and incentives for investments Source: Federai government, Autofacts analysis Market outlook Brazii  light vehicle production   pace for record levels, with the first half  2o13 far outpacing the sluggish pace  2o12. Fuli -year assembly  expected  reach .  million units for 2o13, with growth continuing   more modest pace  .   2o14.  the mid term, South America   whole  expected  hit the  million mark  2o15, but short -term production stability  the region remains PwC Page    heavily dependent  when civii unrest  Brazii subsides, especially with the World Cup and Olympics  the horizon. New light vehicle registrations  Brazii reached .  million units between January and June. While lower vehicle taxes have helped ease concerns over credit availability, politicai and sociai unrest wili serve  constrain growth, particularly  the rate seen  the first five months  the year. While any  uantifiable impact  recent demonstrations and riots remains   seen, sales wili likely puli back, suggesting  fuli -year growth rate  just under . Brazii: Light vehicle sales  source and segment 2oo5 -2o13 YTD percentage share Source: ANFAVEA Current state  the  ndustry  Thailand  cushion the Thai automotive industry from the impact  floods that hit Bangkok  late 2o11, the  overnment launched  stimulus program   2o12. Under   program , first-time passenger car buyers were entitled    1oo, ooo baht , 3oo USD  tax rebates. The tax rebates boosted Thailand' car sales   record high  .  million units  2o12,   jump from 2o11. Production  the first half  this increased  over .  --  reach .  million units.   the overali car production,  totai  54o, 3o3 units, .  were manufactured for export,  increase  .  --, while 8oo, ooo units,  were built for domestic sales.  Federation   hai Industries - Press release Sales  vehicles  the first half jumped .  --  74o, 795 units. Thailand: Automotive industry growth, production, sales and export 2oo2 -2o11 thousands Source: Thai Board  Investment Economic contribution The  utomotive industry  Thailand  second -largest export industry, after computer parts and components. Thanks  continuous government support,  has evolved into  industry with vibrant foreign OEM competition and  extensive network  supporting indu stries including severai smali and medium -sized industriai firms. Thailand  long experience with automotive manufacturing has equipped the country with  comparatively low -cost yet experienced labo  force for the sector. Apart from launching industry -friendly policies focus sed  investment privileges and excise -tax benefits, the government also supports environmentai friendliness, and development  the workforce. This makes   ideai manufacturing location for eco -cars and one -tonne pickup trucks.      1oo 2oo5 2oo6 2oo7 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13 Domestic Auto Import Auto Domestic Light Truck Import Light Truck , 1251, 1881, 2871, 394 9991, 645 , 458 7o3 682631682 o5oo1, ooo1, 5oo2, ooo 2oo5 2oo6 2oo7 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 Production Sales Exports PwC Page    Thailand: Forecast  the  anpower required  the  uto parts industry 2oo8 -2o15 thousands Source: Federation  Thai Industries According  forecasts  the Auto Parts Industry Club and TAPMA, the automobile industry  likely  continue growing and Thailand  expected   assembling .  million automobiles  year  2o15. Provided the trend continues, the country should produce about .  million vehicles annually  2o2o   result  many government support program mes, including the eco car project.  According   survey  members  the Auto Parts Club and TAPMA, the industry employed 457, ooo workers  2o1o when automobile production stood  .  million units. This put the productivity figure  .  vehicles per worker.  Trade balance Thailand: Automotive parts exports 2oo - Apr 2o13 thousands Source: TAPMA  Federation  Thai Industries -Preparation  Thai Automotive Workforce  Journey towards AEC  Federation  Thai Industries - Preparation  Thai Automotive workforce  journey towards AEC Market outlook According  the forecast  the Thai Automotive Federation, automakers are likely  produce .  million vehicles this year,  slight improvement from .  million  2o12. Overali output  the first half  this year rose .  from  year earlier  .  million units.  the sales front, domestic demand stili looks weaker resulting from the withdrawai  subsidies  the government. However with the introduction  newer eco -car models, there could  intense competition  the sub -compact car segment during the second half  this year  hat could see the year ending with sales  nearly .  million units. Current state  the  ndustry  India The  arket performance  India during 2oo9 and 2o1o was underpinned  naturai demand driven  the country  economic performance, growing middle class and low levels  vehicle ownership. Lower levels  economic growth, combined with rising petroi prices and high interest rates have created strong headwinds for the Indian vehicle market, and volatility  petroi and diesei prices has added  unc ertainty  the buying decision. The increase  excise duty  utility vehicles put  further body blow  the growing SUV segment.   result, the Indian passenger vehicle market has fallen consecutively month over month Aprii  July for the past fou  months. Block closures have become  regular feature  carmakers contend with the rapid slowdown  the demand for cars. Severai automakers are now periodically reducing production schedules  better align production with demand. The  ong-term outlook for the Indian market has also been revised    clear that India stili faces significant hurdles  the road  greater levels  motorisation, likely   resolved over  longer  -  -year planning horizon. Economic contribution With .  contr ibution  India  GDP, the automobile industry  one  the key manufacturing sectors  India. India  currently the sixth largest passenger car producer  the world with  annuai turnover  around  billion USD   2o13 and employs around .  million people directly and indirectly. Direct employment includes personnei working with automobile OEMs and auto component manufacturers about   . Indirect employment includes personnei working  enabling industries, such  vehicle finance and insurance, vehicle repair, vehicle service stations, vehicle maintenance, 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 Jan-Apr- Export Value PwC Page    vehicle and component dealers, drivers, cleaners, etc about 6oto . India: Number  institutes and number  engineers 2o11 thousands Source: NSDC report  auto and auto component industry Trade balance India: Automotive parts imports and exports      USD, millions Source: ACMA, DGCIS  Codes data Market outlook  the last few years, the passenger vehicle industry was largely driven  strong economic growth. However,  host  domestic factors  the form  increasing fuei prices, the weakening rupee and prolonged high interest rates led  rising vehicle financing costs, thus leadi    slowdown  the demand for cars. While the demand for micro  smali SUVs provided  boost  India' passenger vehicle market, passenger car sales feli during  2o13 for the first time   decade  .   .  million units. Despite OEMs launch ing  speciai editions  the previous months, giving interest -free repayment and discounts     catch customers  dealerships, the car industry faces the decade  worst slowdown. India: Growth   sales relative  the  conomic indicator  2oo8 -  2o13 India: Passenger vehicle sales segment analysis  2o13   2o12 millions India: Passenger vehicle sales OEM analysis  2o13   2o12 millions Source: Autofacts, SIAM ITI Eng. Diploma Eng. Degree .  Institutes Students , 763 , 81413, 68o , 681 , ooo8, ooo12, ooo16, ooo Imports Exports            . . . . . . .   2oo8  2oo9  2o1o  2o11  2o12  2o13  Sales  sales growth rate GDP Growth Rate IIP Growth Rate .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . oVansUtility VehiclesPassenger CarsT otai   2o12  2o13Market Share .  ,  .  .  .  .  - -      . . . . . . .  Suzuki Hyundai TATA    oyota Others  2o13  2o12 YoY Sales Growth Rate  -axis Market Share   2o13  -axis PwC Page    After more than  years  steady output growth, India  production  forecast  fali  around   .  million units for the current year. Accordingly, excess capacity  expected  reach  record high  .  million  the current year making capa city utilisation fali  , representing the lowest levei for more than  decade. Just two years ago, India was seen  the world' hottest growth market after China and major OEMs invested  capacity expansion. Within these two years, assembly capacity  India rose  around   over .  million units  2o13.  keep pace with slowing demand and bridge the gap between sales and output, leading OEMs scaled back their production recently and block closures have become  regular theme  India.  least    days  production days have been lost  companies are now shutting down production  their plants  cope with  inventory pile -  stockyards and dealerships  the past six  eight months. India: Light vehicle assembly outlook 2oo4 -2o19 millions Source: Autofacts  2o13 data release Although demand for vehicles  India increased over the past years, motorisation  India  terms  vehicle penetration and sales per capita  stili among the lowest compared  other marke . However, low car penetration coupled with  huge population and  growing middle class with increasing purchasing power makes India stili  high potentiai growth market for major OEMs  keep investing . India: Vehicles   per capita and vehicle density Source: Autofacts analysis, VDA With  vehicle density per 1ooo population  around .  and vehicle sales per 1ooo  . , India falls far behind other emerging markets. Vehicle sales remains low largely due  relatively low per capita income levels combined with high acquisition costs and increasing fuei prices. One  the key growth drivers was the strategy  automakers  build  range  cheap, smaller and more fuei -efficient and affordable cars  cater not only  locai  stomers, but also  use India   export hub for smali car manufacturing.  assemble these low -margin vehicles profitably, car manufacturer  are investing  locai production  cut costs and ramp  volumes with exports seen   opportunity  expan  the volume base and create scale. Reflection: Are  facing  crisis      opportunity  disguise? One  the key concerns whenever the auto industry  hit  slowdown  whether   capable   rebound and how long the slowdown wili last. During the financiai crisis  2oo9, governments  the , the  and Japan responded  announcing policy interventions that have helped revive both the industry  weli  the economy. These  turn led  benefits such   economic stimulus, reducti   vehicle emissions and improvements  vehicle safety.                     Assembly Volume Excess Capacity Utilisation  -Axis Brazii IndiaChinaRussia IndonesiaSouth KoreaJapanUSA EU15 New           45PC and  per capita Passenger  sales per capitaBubble size refers  the countries populations PwC Page    The preceding reviews  the globai automotive markets highlight the fact that  crisis situation needs dynamic policy intervention. The Indian  overnment had introduced  range   measures such   cuts  customs and excise duty including auto components   used  hybrid vehicles, stimulus package encouraging soft loans  compensate tight lending and softening  oii prices  order  boost consumer demand for automobiles.  stimulate dem and for new vehicles, the Indian government needs  announce  scrappage scheme for vehicle owners  replace older automobiles  extending  rebate  excise and sales tax  the lines  European nations. The government needs  also explore  scrappage incentive  replace ali vehicles that are    years old. Besides stimulating demand,  wili also help controi air pollution and reduc  fuei consumption. The workforce needs   trained  meet the demands  the industry  the long term. Availability  skilled manpower has always been  key competitive advantage for both automakers and suppliers. According  SIAM estimates, the direct employment  the industry  close   million. However, for this number   sustainable over the long term    years, another  million are needed for employment  the industry.  Industry associations SIAM, ACMA and FADA have taken the first and cruciai step  set   Automotive Skili Development Councii ASDC, which  yet   fully  perationai.  meet long - term objectives, remediai actions are needed. India: Functionai distribution  workforce  auto and auto component suppliers Source: NSDC skili gap analysis report Skili gaps exist  various sections  the value chain among component suppliers, vehicle manufacturers, sales,  NSDC Skili gap analysis report  Auto and auto component Industry  India service and support functions.  address these gaps,  common roadmap and  nationai levei assessment  skills, training development program mes and technica  certification need   identified.  nationai levei certification   vocationai qualification wili enable companies  source from  common talent pooi having similar skillsets. Graduates  ITIs, engineering colleges and other institut ions are not readily employable and need retraining  substantiai costs  order   come employable. Few companies have already taken  leadership role  ITIs, partnering colleges, establishing their own training cent res, and working with NGOs and other training partners  retrain persons who could  recruited. The ASDC can take the lead  establishing the much - needed academia -industry connect  encouraging internship opportunities  ali major auto production hubs  the country.  needs  also adopt  collaborative approach  training that  inclusive  manufacturers and dealerships, develop online training resources and focus  increasing practicai components  the courses  order  enhance the hands -  ills  students. Key work areas and skili sets that wili   demand  the long term need   identified such  drivers, service mechanics, salespersons and manufacturing workers. For each area,  hierarchy needs   established, different levels   competencies need   determined and  nationai curriculum framework devised. Conclusion The differences  the structure  the automotive industry  India and other developed countries ,  and Japan are indeed immense. However,  can learn fro  the policy approaches adopted  the industry there and develop  mechanism  framework that insulates the Indian industry against future economic shocks. Ali industry stakeholders must learn  integrate different approaches.  order  build efficien  capacity  their plants and improve employee skills. The know -how which exists among  few must  diffused and shared among ali  that the entire industry works  the same direction  order  build  business based modei that has scale and sustainability. Function Distribution  Auto OEM sDistribution  Large Tier  suppliersDistribution  Smali Tier  suppliers, Tier , Tier III and lower suppliers Manufacturing Operations - - - Design and Development, Production Engineering7- - - Vendor Development Purchase4- - Minimai Projects - Minimai ------  ooi room - - - Industriai Engineering  echnicai Services4- - Minimai Sales and Marketing - - - Service Spares - - - Support functions , Admin, Finance, Accounts - - - PwC Page    Abdui Majeed, Partner Price Waterhouse and expert  Automotive sector, India Karthik Manivachagam, Automotive Knowledge Manager and Autofacts analyst, India 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Ltd. Ali rights reserved. PwC,  registered trademark, refers  PricewaterhouseCoop ers Private Limited  limited company  India ,  the context requires, other member firms  PwC Internationai Limited, each  which   separate and independent legai entity. www. pwc. 