Title: pwc_companies-act-2013-key-highlights-and-analysis
Date Published: 2013-12-23 12:27:59+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_companies-act-2013-key-highlights-and-analysis.pdf
Word Count: 11234
Sentence Count: 728
Average Sentence Length: 25.96

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
act: 587
company: 351
section: 277
companies: 211
financiai: 91
provisions: 78
also: 75
directors: 73
director: 72
requirements: 70
may: 68
public: 64
wili: 63
shares: 62
private: 57
shali: 55
existing: 53
board: 53
prescribed: 51
requirement: 51

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Companies Act, 2o13  Companies Act, 2o13 Key highlights and analysis Significant changes and implications Contents  Introduction  Key definitions and concepts  Setting    company  Management and administration  Directors  Accounts and audit  Dividend  Compromises, arrangements and amalgamations  Revivai and rehabilitation  sick companies  Corporate sociai responsibility  Implications  private companies  Other areas  Sections notified tili date and circulars  orders issued Foreword The long-awaited Companies Bili 2o13 got its assent  the Lok Sabha   December 2o12 and  the Rajya Sabha   August 2o13. After having obtained the assent  the President  India   August 2o13,  has now become the much awaited Companies Act, 2o13 2o13 Act.  attempt has been made  reduce the content  the substantive portion  the related law  the Companies Act, 2o13  compared  the Companies Act, 1956 1956 Act.  the process, much  the aforesaid content has been left,   prescribed,  the Rules 34o which are yet   finalised and notified.   the date  this publication,  sections have been notified and  few circulars have been issued clarifying the applicability  these.  are pleased  bring you our new publication, Companies Act, 2o13: Key highlights and analysis. This publication brings out the significant changes proposed  the 2o13 Act  compared  the 1956 Act and our initiai analysis thereon.   pertinent  note that for the complete understanding  the implications  various sections  the 2o13 Act, the related Rules wili need   read with. These Rules have been opened for public comments and consultation  tranches and are expected   notified thereafter  the end  this fiscai year. The 2o13 Act introduces significant changes  the provisions related  governance, -management, compliance and enforcement, disclosure norms, auditors and mergers and acquisitions. Also, new concepts such  one-person company, smali companies, dormant company, class action suits, registered valuers and corporate sociai responsibility have been included.  hope this publication clearly explains the significant changes and their potentiai implications. PwC India 3oth November, 2o13 Introduction Companies Act, 2o13:  statisticai snapshot Number  schedules:  Number  chapters:  Number  sections: 47o7 Schedules 47o Sections Chapters The 1956 Act has been  need   substantiai revamp for quite some time now,  make  more contemporary and relevant  corporates, regulators and other stakeholders  India. While severai unsuccessfui attempts have been made  the past  revise the existing 1956 Act, there have been quite  few changes  the administrative portion  the 1956 Act. The most recent attempt  revise the 1956 Act was the Companies Bili, 2oo9 which was introduced  the Lok Sabha, one  the two Houses  Parliament  India,   August 2oo9. This Companies Bili, 2oo9 was referred  the Parliamentary Standing Committee  Finance, which submitted its report   August 2o1o and was withdrawn after the introduction  the Companies Bili, 2o11. The Companies Bili, 2o11 was also considered  the Parliamentary Standing Committee  Finance which submitted its report   June 2o12. Subsequently, the Bili was considered and approved  the Lok Sabha   December 2o12  the Companies Bili, 2o12 the Bili. The Bili was then considered and approved  the Rajya Sabha too   August 2o13.  received the President  assent   August 2o13 and has now become the Companies Act, 2o13. The changes  the 2o13 Act have far-reaching implications that are set  significantly change the manner  which corporates operate  India.  this publication,  have encapsulated the major changes  compared  the 1956 Act and the potentiai implications  these changes.  have also included, where relevant, the provisions  the draft rules, which have been issued  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs the MCA tili date for public comments. Such inclusions have been highlighted with  asterix  the end  the sentence. However, please note that these are only draft rules and wili undergo changes before being notified.  PwCKey definitions and concepts Companies Act, 2o13 . Companies .  One-person company: The 2o13 Act introduces  new type  entity  the existing list . . apart from forming  public  private limited company, the 2o13 Act enables the formation   new entity  one-person company OPC.  OPC means  company with only one person  its member section    2o13 Act. . . Private company: The 2o13 Act introduces  change  the definition for  private company, inter-alia, the new requirement increases the limit  the number  members from   2oo. section    2o13 Act. . . Smali company:  smali company has been defined   company, other than  public company.  Paid- share capitai  which does not exceed  lakh INR  such higher amount  may  prescribed which shali not  more than five crore INR  Turnover  which  per its last profit-and-loss account does not exceed two crore INR  such higher amount  may  prescribed which shali not  more than  crore INR:  set out  the 2o13 Act, this section wili not  applicable  the following:  holding company   subsidiary company  company registered under section   company  body corporate governed  any speciai Act section    2o13 Act . . Dormant company: The 2o13 Act states that  company can  classified  dormant when   formed and registered under this 2o13 Act for  future project   hold  asset  intellectuai property and has  significant accounting transaction. Such  company   inactive one may apply  the ROC  such manner  may  prescribed for obtaining the status   dormant company. Section 455  2o13 Act . Roles and responsibilities .  Officer: The definition  officer has been extended  include promoters and key manageriai personnei section    2o13 Act. .  Key manageriai personnei: The term key manageriai personnei has been defined  the 2o13 Act and has been used  severai sections, thus expanding the scope  persons covered  such sections section    2o13 Act. . . Promoter: The term promoter has been defined  the following ways:  person who has been named  such   prospectus   identified  the company  the annuai return referred   Section   2o13 Act that deals with annuai return;  who has controi over the affairs  the company, directly  indirectly whether   shareholder, director  otherwise;   accordance with whose advice, directions  instructions the Board  Directors  the company  accustomed  act. The proviso  this section states that sub-section  would not apply   person who  acting merely   professionai capacity. section    2o13 Act . : Independent Director: The term Independent Director has now been defined  the 2o13 Act, along with severai new requirements relating  their appointment, role and responsibilities. Further some  these requirements are not  line with the corresponding requirements under the equity listing agreement section  , 149   2o13 Act. . Investments .  Subsidiary: The definition  subsidiary  included  the 2o13 Act states that certain class  classes  holding company  may  prescribed shali not have layers  subsidiaries beyond such numbers  may  prescribed. With such  restrictive section,  appears that  holding company wili  longer  able  hold subsidiaries beyond  specified number section    2o13 Act. . Financiai statements . . Financiai year:  has been defined  the period ending  the 31st day  March every year, and where  has been incorporated   after the 1st day  January  , the period ending  the 31st day  March  the following year,  respect whereof financiai statement  the company  body corporate  made . section    2o13 Act. While there are certain exceptions included, this section mandates  uniform accounting year for ali companies and may create significant implementation issues. . . Consolidated financiai statements: The 2o13 Act now mandates consolidated financiai statements CFS for any company having  subsidiary   associate   joint venture,  prepare and present consolidated financiai statements  addition  standalone financiai statements. . . Conflicting definitions: There are severai definitions  the 2o13 Act divergent from those used  the notified accounting standards, such   joint venture   associate, , etc. , which may lead  hardships  compliance. The 2o13 Act has introduced severai new concepts and has also tried  streamline many  the requirements  introducing new definitions. This chapter covers some  these new concepts and definitions  brief.  few  these significant aspects have been discussed  detaii  further chapters.  PwC5. Audit and auditors .  Mandatory auditor rotation and joint auditors: The 2o13 Act now mandates the rotation  auditors after the specified time period. The 2o13 Act also includes  enabling provision for joint audits. .  Non-audit services: The 2o13 Act now states that any services   rendered  the auditor should  approved  the board  directors  the audit committee. Additionally, the auditor  also restricted from providing certain specific services. . . Auditing standards: The Standards  Auditing have been accorded legai sanctity  the 2o13 Act and would  subject  notification  the NFRA. Auditors are now mandatorily bound  the 2o13 Act  ensure compliance with Standards  Auditing. .  Cognisance  Indian Accounting Standards Ind : The 2o13 Act,  severai sections, has given cognisance  the Indian Accounting Standards, which are standards converged with Internationai Financiai Reporting Standards,  view  their becoming applicable  future. For example, the definition   financiai statement includes  statement  changes  equity which would  required under Ind . Section    2o13 Act . . Secretariai audit for bigger companies:  respect  listed companies and other class  companies  may  prescribed, the 2o13 Act provides for  mandatory requirement  have secretariai audit. The draft rules make  applicable  every public company with paid- share capitai . 1oo crores.  specified  the 2o13 Act, such companies would  required  annex  secretariai audit report given   Company Secretary  practice with its Board  report. Section 2o4  2o13 Act . . Secretariai Standards: The 2o13 Act requires every company  observe secretariai standards specified  the Institute  Company Secretaries  India with respect  generai and board meetings Section 118   2o13 Act, which were hitherto not given cognizance under the 1956 Act. . . Internai Audit: The importance  internai audit has been weli acknowledged  Companies Auditor Report Order, 2oo3 the Order, pursuant  which auditor   company  required  comment  the fact that the internai audit system  the company  commensurate with the nature and size  the company  operations. However, the Order did not mandate that  internai audit should  conducted  the internai auditor  the company. The Order acknowledged that  internai audit can  conducted   individuai who  not  appointment  the company. The 2o13 Act now moves  step forward and mandates the appointment   internai auditor who shali either   chartered accountant   cost accountant,  such other professionai  may  decided  the Board  conduct internai audit  the functions and activities  the company. The class  classes  companies which shali  required  mandatorily appoint  internai auditor  per the draft rules are  follows: Every listed company Every public company having paid- share capitai  more than  crore INR Every other public company which has any outstanding loans  borrowings from banks  public financiai institutions more than  crore INR  which has accepted deposits  more than  crore INR  any point  time during the last financiai year . . Audit  items  cost: The centrai government may,  order,  respect  such class  companies engaged  the production  such goods  providing such services  may  prescribed, direct that particulars relating  the utilisation  materiai  labour   other items  cost  may  prescribed shali also  included  the books  account kept  that class  companies.  virtue  this section  the 2o13 Act, the cost audit would  mandated for certain companies. section 148  2o13 Act.   pertinent  note that similar requirements have recently been notified  the centrai government. . Regulators . . Nationai Company Law Tribunai Tribunai  NCLT:  accordance with the Supreme Court   judgement,   May 2o1o,  the composition and constitution  the Tribunai, modifications relating  qualification and experience, etc.  the members  the Tribunai has been made. Appeals from the Tribunai shali lie with the NCLT. Chapter XXVII  the 2o13 Act consisting  section 4o7  434 deals with NCLT and appellate Tribunai. . . Nationai Financiai Reporting Authority NFRA: The 2o13 Act requires the constitution  NFRA, which has been bestowed with significant powers not only  issuing the authoritative pronouncements, but also  regulating the audit profession. . . Serious Fraud Investigation Office SFIO: The 2o13 Act has bestowed legai status  SFIO. Companies Act, 2o13 . Mergers and acquisitions The 2o13 Act has streamlined  weli  introduced concepts such  reverse mergers merger  foreign companies with Indian companies and squeeze-out provisions, which are significant. The 2o13 Act has also introduced the requirement for valuations  severai cases, including mergers and acquisitions,  registered valuers. . Corporate sociai responsibility The 2o13 Act makes  effort  introduce the culture  corporate sociai responsibility CSR  Indian corporates  requiring companies  formulate  corporate sociai responsibility policy and  least incur  given minimum expenditure  sociai activities. . Class action suits The 2o13 Act introduces  new concept  class action suits which can  initiated  shareholders against the company and auditors. . Prohibition  association  partnership  persons exceeding certain number The 2o13 Act puts  restriction  the number  partners that can  admitted   partnership  1oo.   specific, the 2o13 Act states that  association  partnership consisting  more than the given number  persons  may  prescribed shali  formed for the purpose  carrying  any business that has for its object the acquisition  gain  the association  partnership   the individuai members thereof, unless   registered   company under this 1956 Act   formed under any other law for the time being  force:   exception, the aforesaid restriction would not apply  the following:  Hindu undivided family carrying  any business  association  partnership,    formed  professionals who are governed  speciai acts like the Chartered Accountants Act, etc. section 464  2o13 Act . Power  remove difficulties The centrai government wili have the power  exempt  modify provisions  the 2o13 Act for  class  classes  companies  public interest. Relevant notification shali  required   laid  draft form  Parliament for  period   days. The 2o13 Act further states  such order shali  made after the expiry   period  five years from the date  commencement  section   the 2o13 Act section 47o  2o13 Act. . Insider trading and prohibition  forward dealings The 2o13 Act for the first time defines insider trading and price-sensitive information and prohibits any person including the director  key manageriai person from entering into insider trading section 195  2o13 Act. Further, the Act also prohibits directors and key manageriai personnei from forward dealings  the company  its holding, subsidiary  associate company section 194  2o13 Act.  PwCSetting    company Companies Act, 2o13 11Incorporation   company . One-person company The 2o13 Act introduces  new type  entity  the existing list . . apart from forming  public  private limited company, the 2o13 Act enables the formation   new entity one-person company OPC.  OPC means  company with only one person  its member section    2o13 Act. The draft rules state that only  naturai person who   Indian citizen and resident  India can incorporate  OPC    nominee for the sole member   OPC. . Memorandum  association Content: The 2o13 Act specifies the mandatory content for the memorandum  association which  similar  the existing provisions  the 1956 Act and refers inter-alia  the following: Name  the company with last word  limited  private limited  the case may  State  which registered office  the company wili  situated Liability  the members  the company However,  against the existing requirement  the 1956 Act, the 2o13 Act does not require the objects clause  the memorandum   classified  the following:  The main object  the company  Objects incidentai  ancillary  the attainment  the main object iii Other objects  the company section    2o13 Act The basic purpose  the 1956 Act for such  classification  set out  section 149  the 1956 Act,   restrict  company from commencing any business  pursue other objects  the company not incidentai  ancillary  the main objects except  satisfaction  certain requirements  prescribed  the 1956 Act like passing  speciai resolution, filing  declaration with the ROC  the effect  resolution. Reservation  name: The 2o13 Act incorporates the procedurai aspects for applying for the availability   name for  new company   existing company  sections   and    2o13 Act. . Articles  association The 2o13 Act introduces the entrenchment provisions  respect  the articles  association   company.  entrenchment provision enables  company  follow  more restrictive procedure than passing  speciai resolution for altering  specific clause  articles  association.  private company can include entrenchment provisions only  agreed  ali its members ,  case   public company,   speciai resolution  passed section   2o13 Act. . Incorporation  company The 2o13 Act mandates inclusion  declaration  the effect that ali provisions  the 1956 Act have been complied with, which   line with the existing requirement  1956 Act. Additionally,  affidavit from the subscribers  the memorandum and from the first directors has   filed with the ROC,  the effect that they are not convicted  any offence  connection with promoting, forming  managing  company  have not been found guilty  any fraud  misfeasance, etc. , under the 2o13 Act during the last five years along with the complete details  name, address  the company, particulars  every subscriber and the persons named  first directors. The 2o13 Act further prescribes that   person furnishes false information,   she, along with the company wili  subject  penai provisions  applicable  respect  fraud . . section 447  2o13 Act section    2o13 Act; Also refer the chapter  other areas . Formation   company with charitable objects  OPC with charitable objects may  incorporated  accordance with the provisions  the 2o13 Act. New objects like environment protection, education, research, sociai welfare etc. , have been added  the existing object for which  charitable company could  incorporated.  against the existing provisions under which  company  licence could  revoked, the 2o13 Act provides that the licence can  revoked not only where the company contravenes any  the requirements  the section but also where the affairs  the company are conducted fraudulently    manner violative  the objects  the company  prejudiciai  public interest. The 2o13 Act thus provides for more stringent provisions for companies incorporated with charitable objects section   2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act introduces  new form  entity one-person company and incorporates certain new provisions  respect  memorandum and articles  association. For instance, the concept  including entrenchment provisions  the articles  association has been introduced.  PwC6. Commencement  business, etc The existing provisions  the 1956 Act  set out  section 149 which provide for requirement with respect  the commencement  business for public companies that have  share capitai would now  applicable  ali companies. The 2o13 Act empowers the ROC  initiate action for removai  the name   company  case the company  directors have not filed the declaration related  the payment  the value  shares agreed   taken  the subscribers  the memorandum and that the paid- share capitai  the company  not less than the prescribed limits  per the 2o13 Act, within 18o days  its incorporation and  the ROC has reasonable cause  believe that the company  not carrying  business  operations section   2o13 Act. . Registered office  company Where  company has changed its name  the last two years, the company  required  paint, affix  print its former names along with the new name  the company  business letters, bili heads, etc. However, the 2o13 Act  silent  the time limit for which the former name needs   kept section   2o13 Act. . Alteration  memorandum The 2o13 Act imposes additionai restriction  the alteration  the object clause  the memorandum for  company which had raised money from the public for one  more objects mentioned  the prospectus and has any unutilised money. The 2o13 Act specifies that along with obtaining  approvai  way   speciai resolution,  company would  required  ensure following   intends  alter its object clause: Publishing the notice  the aforesaid resolution stating the justification  variation  two newspapers Exit option can  given  dissenting shareholders  the promoters and shareholders having controi  accordance with the regulations   specified  the Securities and Exchange Board  India SEBI section   2o13 Act. . Subsidiary company not  hold shares  its holding company The existing provision  section   the 1956 Act which prohibits  subsidiary company  hold shares  its holding company continues  get acknowledged  the 2o13 Act. Thus, the earlier concern that   subsidiary   body corporate,  may hold shares  another body corporate which  the subsidiary  holding company continues  apply section   2o13 Act. Prospectus and public offer The 2o13 Act has introduced  new section section   explicitly provide the ways  which  public company  private company may issue securities. This section explains that  public company may issue securities  any  the following manners:  public through prospectus Through private placement Through rights issue   bonus issue. For private companies, this section provides that  may issue securities through private placement,  way  rights issue  bonus issue. Section  also provides that compliance with provisions  part   chapter III  required for the issue  securities  public through prospectus. For private placement compliance, with the provisions  part   chapter III are required. The 2o13 Act also introduces certain changes with respect  prospectus and public offers aimed  enhancing disclosure requirements  weli  streamlining the process  issuance  securities. . Issue  prospectus Currently, the matters and reports   included  the prospectus are specified  parts  and   Schedule   the 1956 Act.  the 2o13 Act, the information   included  the prospectus  specified  section   2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act mandates certain additionai disclosures: Any litigation  legai action pending  taken   government department   statutory body during the last five years immediately preceding the year  the issue  prospectus against the promoter  the company Companies Act, 2o13  Sources  promoter  contribution The 2o13 Act has also relaxed the disclosure requirements  some areas. Examples  certain disclosures not included  the 2o13 Act are  follows. Particulars regarding the company and other listed companies under the same management, which made any capitai issues during the last three years - Export possibilities and export obligations - Details regarding collaboration The 2o13 Act states that the report  the auditors  the assets and liabilities  business shali not  earlier than 18o days before the issue  the prospectus section    iii  2o13 Act. The 1956 Act currently requires that the report wili not  earlier than 12o days before the issue  the prospectus. . Variation  terms  contract  objects The 2o13 Act states that  speciai resolution  required  vary the terms   contract referred   the prospectus  objects for which the prospectus was issued section    2o13 Act. The 1956 Act currently requires approvai   generai meeting  way   ordinary resolution. The 2o13 Act also requires that dissenting shareholders shali  given  exit offer  promoters  controlling shareholders section    2o13 Act. . Offer  sale  shares  certain members  the company The 2o13 Act includes  new section under which members   company,  consultation with the board  directors, may offer  part  their holding  shares  the public. The document  which the offer  sale  the public  made wili  treated  the prospectus issued  the company. The members shali reimburse the company ali expenses incurred   section   2o13 Act. . Shelf prospectus The 2o13 Act extends the facility  shelf prospectus  enabling SEBI  prescribe the classes  companies that may file  shelf prospectus. The 1956 Act currently limits the facility  shelf prospectus  public financiai institutions, public sector banks  scheduled banks section    2o13 Act. . Globai depository receipts GDRs The 2o13 Act includes  new section  enable the issue  depository receipts  any foreign country subject  prescribed conditions section   2o13 Act. Currently, the provisions  section   the 1956 Act relating  further issue  shares are being used  conjunction with the requirements mandated  SEBI for the issuance  depository receipts.  severai aspects across the 2o13 Act,  appears that the 2o13 Act supplements the powers  SEBI  incorporating requirements already mandated  SEBI. . Private placement The 2o13 Act requires that certain specified conditions are complied with  order  make  offer  invitation  offer  way  private placement  through the issue   prospectus. The offer  securities  invitation  subscribe securities   financiai year shali  made  such number  persons not exceeding   such higher number  may  prescribed excluding qualified institutionai buyers, and employees  the company being offered securities under  scheme  employees stock option   financiai year and  such conditions including the form and manner  private placement  may  prescribed. This provision  the 2o13 Act   line with the existing provision  the 1956 Act. The allotments with respect  any earlier offer  invitation may have been completed. Ali the money payable towards the subscription  securities shali  paid through cheque, demand draft  any other banking channels but not  cash. The offers shali  made only  such persons whose names are recorded  the company prior  the invitation  subscribe, and that such persons shali receive the offer  name. The company offering securities shali not release any advertisements  utilise any media, marketing  distribution channels  agents  inform the public  large about such  offer section   2o13 Act.  PwCShare capitai and debentures The chapter  share capitai and debentures introduces some key changes  the 2o13 Act.  illustrate, the 2o13 Act does not give any cognisance  the existing requirement  section   the 1956 Act that provided some saving grace  private companies. Therefore, the applicability  following sections  the 2o13 Act   longer restricted  public companies and private companies which are subsidiaries   public company and are now applicable  private companies also. Two kinds  shares capitai New issue  shares capitai   only  two kinds Voting rights . Voting rights The provisions  2o13 Act regarding voting rights are similar  the existing section   the 1956 Act. The only change noted  the 2o13 Act  the removai  distinction provided  the 1956 Act with respect  the entitlement  vote  case the company fails  pay dividend  its cumulative and non-cumulative preference share holders section   2o13 Act The provisions regarding private placement and additionai disclosures  prospectus wili also help  strengthen the capitai markets. The 2o13 Act proposes  -instate the existing concept  shares with differentiai voting rights. Pursuant  this section the company may face hardship with regards  computation  proportionate voting rights. . Variation  shareholder  rights Similar  the other provisions  the 1956 Act, the 2o13 Act acknowledges the requirements  section 1o6  the 1956 Act with  additionai requirement  respect  those classes  share holders whose rights are affected pursuant  any variation. The proviso  section    2o13 Act states that  the variation  one class  shareholders affects the rights  any other class  shareholders, the consent  three-fourths  such other class  shareholders shali also  obtained and the provisions  this section shali apply  such variation. . Application  premiums received  issue  shares The 2o13 Act lays down  similar requirement  section   that  the section   the 1956 Act  respect  application  premiums received  issue  shares; however, the section  2o13 Act has  non-obstante provision  respect  certain class  companies which would  prescribed   later date. The 2o13 Act states that these classes  companies would not  able  apply the securities premium towards the below specified purposes, unless the financiai statements are  compliance with the accounting standards issued under section 133  2o13 Act: Paying  unissued equity shares  the company  fully paid bonus shares Writing off the expenses   the commission paid  discount allowed  any issue  equity shares  the company Purchase  its own shares  other securities The 2o13 Act restricts the application  securities premium for  certain class  companies  they faii  comply with the accounting standards. The 2o13 Act continues  state that securities premium amount can  utilised for purpose  writing off preliminary expenses. However,  view  the requirements  accounting standard , intangible asset, the requirement  this sub-section appears   superfluous. . Prohibition  issue  shares   discount Companies would  longer  permitted  issue shares   discount. The only shares that could  issued   discount are sweat equity wherein shares are issued  employees  lieu  their services section  and Section   2o13 Act. Further, explanations  and   the existing section 79A  the 1956 Act that prescribe the provisions  respect  sweat equity have not been included  the 2o13 Act. Explanation  defined company for the purpose  this section and explanation  defined sweat equity. . Issue and redemption  preference shares The existing requirement  sections  and 8oA  the 1956 Act with respect  the issue and redemption  preference shares continues   acknowledged  the 2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act reiterates the existing requirement that  company cannot issue preference shares with  redemption date  beyond  years. However,  gives  exemption for cases where preference shares Companies Act, 2o13 15have been issued  respect  infrastructure projects. Infrastructure projects have been defined  Schedule   the 2o13 Act and these shares would  subject  redemption  such percentage  prescribed   annuai basis  the option  such preference shareholders. Further, the 2o13 Act adds another administrative requirement  obtaining speciai resolution with respect  the preference shares which could not  redeemed   company. The 2o13 Act states that where  company  not   position  redeem any preference shares   pay dividend,  any,  such shares  accordance with the terms  issue,  may, with the consent  the holders  three-fourths  value  such preference shares and with the approvai  the Tribunai issue further redeemable preference shares equai  the amount due, including the dividend thereon, with respect  the unredeemed preference shares.  the issue  such further redeemable preference shares, the unredeemed preference shares shali  deemed  have been redeemed. The 2o13 Act does not envisage any penalty  respect  non-compliance with the provision  this section,  was prescribed  sub- section  and   section  and 8oA  the 1956 Act respectively section   2o13 Act. . Refusai  registration and appeai against registration The provision relating  refusai  registration  transfer  transmission  securities  private and public companies has been separately clarified  the 2o13 Act. The private and public companies are required  send notice  refusai within  days  the receipt  instrument  transfer, and aggrieved party may appeai  the Tribunai against the refusai within the specified number  days section    2o13 Act. . Further issue  share capitai The existing requirement  section   the 1956 Act  regard  further issue  capitai would  longer  restricted  public companies and would  applicable  private companies also, since sub-section   section   the 1956 Act has not been acknowledged  the 2o13 Act. Further, the 2o13 Act provides that  rights issue can also  made  the employees  the company who are under  scheme  employees stock option, subject   speciai resolution and subject  conditions  prescribed. Further, the price  such shares should  determined using the valuation report   registered valuer, which would  subject  conditions  prescribed section   2o13 Act. . Issue  bonus shares The existing 1956 Act does not have any specific provision dealing with issue  bonus shares although  has referred  the concept  bonus shares  many places. The 2o13 Act includes  new section that provides for issue  fully paid- bonus shares out  its free reserves  the securities premium account  the capitai redemption reserve account, subject  the compliance with certain conditions such  authorisation  the articles, approvai  the generai meeting and   section   2o13 Act. . Unlimited company  provide for reserve share capitai  conversion into limited company This section corresponds  section   the 1956 Act and seeks  provide that  unlimited company having  share capitai may  -registered   limited company  increasing the nominai amount  each share, subject  the condition that  part  the increased capitai shali  capable  being called , except  the event and for the purposes  the company being wound . The 2o13 Act further provides that  specified portion  its uncalled share capitai shali not  capable  being called  except  the event and for the purposes  the company being wound  section   2o13 Act. . Reduction  share capitai The 2o13 Act gives cognisance  one  the amendments made  the listing agreement  SEBI.  new clause   was inserted  the listing agreement which provided that  scheme  amalgamation  merger  reconstruction, should comply with the requirements  section 211   the 1956 Act.  similar requirement has been introduced  section   2o13 Act, which states that   application for reduction  share capitai shali  sanctioned  the Tribunai unless the accounting treatment, proposed  the company for such  reduction   conformity with the accounting standards specified  section 133  any other provision  the 2o13 Act and  certificate  that effect  the company  auditor has been filed with the Tribunai. Further, the 2o13 Act clarifies that  such reduction shali  made  the company   arrears  repayment  any deposits accepted  , either before  after the commencement  the 2o13 Act,  the interest payable thereon. . Power  the company  purchase its own securities The existing provision  section 77A  the 1956 Act has been acknowledged  the 2o13 Act. The only difference  that the option available  company for  buy-back from odd lots   longer available section . The 2o13 Act provides flexibility  management and administration  recognising the electronic mode for notices and voting, which   line with the MCA  efforts  give cognisance  use  electronic media  evident from  number  green initiatives introduced recently, maintenance  registers and returns   place other than the registered office.  PwCManagement and administration Companies Act, 2o13 171. Annuai return The 2o13 Act states that requirement  certification   company secretary  practice  annuai return wili  extended  companies having paid  capitai  five crore INR  more and turnover   crore INR  more section    2o13 Act and the 1956 Act requires certification only for listed companies. The information that needs   included  the annuai return has been increased. The additionai information required, includes particulars  holding, subsidiary and associate companies, remuneration  directors and key manageriai personnei, penalty  punishment imposed  the company, its directors  officers section    2o13 Act. . Place  keeping registers and returns The 2o13 Act allows registers  members, debenture-holders, any other security holders  copies  return,   kept  any other place  India  which more than one-tenth  members reside section    2o13 Act. The flexibility  the 1956 Act  limited   place within the city, town  village  which the registered office  situated. . Generai meetings The 2o13 Act states that the first annuai generai meeting should  held within nine months from the date  closing  the first financiai year  the company section    2o13 Act, whereas the 1956 Act requires the first annuai generai meeting   held within  months from the date  incorporation. Currently, the 1956 Act does not define business hours, which the 2o13 Act now defines  between   and  . The 2o13 Act states that annuai generai meeting cannot  held   nationai holiday whereas the annuai generai meeting cannot  held   public holiday  per the existing provisions  section 166   the 1956 Act section    2o13 Act.  order  cali  annuai generai meeting  shorter notice, the 2o13 Act requires consent    the members  against the current requirement  the 1956 Act which requires consent  ali the members section 1o1   2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act states that besides director and manager, the nature  concern  interest  every director, manager, any other key manageriai personnei and relatives  such director, manager  any other key manageriai personnei  each item  speciai business wili also need   mentioned  the notice  the meeting section 1o2   2o13 Act. Also, the threshold  disclosure  share holding interest  the company  which the business relates  every promoter, director, manager and key manageriai personnei has been reduced from    section 1o2   2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act states that  case   public company, the quorum wili depend  number  members   the date  meeting. The required quorum   follows: Five members  number  members  not more than one thousand Fifteen members  number  members  more than one thousand but   five thousand Thirty members  number  members  more than five thousand section 1o3   2o13 Act  limit has been introduced  the number  members which  proxy can represent. The 2o13 Act has introduced  duai limit  terms  number  members, which  prescribed   members and also sets  limit  terms  number  shares holding  the aggregate not more than   the totai share capitai  the company carrying voting rights section 1o5   2o13 Act. Further,   relevant  note that private companies cannot impose restrictions  voting rights  members other than due  unpaid calls  sums  lien section 1o6   2o13 Act. Listed companies wili  required  file with the ROC  report  the manner prescribed  the rules  each annuai generai meeting including  confirmation that the meeting was convened, held and conducted  per the provisions  the 2o13 Act and the relevant rules section 121  2o13 Act. . Other matters Listed companies wili  required  file  return with the ROC with respect  the change  the number  shares held  promoters and top ten shareholders within  days  such  change section   2o13 Act. This requirement again demonstrates the effort made towards synchronising the requirements under the 2o13 Act and the requirements under SEBI. Additionally,   annuai basis, companies are also currently required  make the disclosures with respect  top shareholders under the Revised Schedule  the 1956 Act. The 2o13 Act requires every company  observe secretariai standards specified  the Institute  Company Secretaries  India with respect  generai and board meetings section 118   2o13 Act, which were hitherto not given cognisance under the 1956 Act. Additionally,   also pertinent  note that these standards  not have  mandatory status for the practicing company secretaries. The 2o13 Act also intends  improve corporate governance  requiring disclosure  nature  concern  interest  every director, manager, any other key manageriai personnei and relatives  such  director, manager  any other key manageriai personnei and reduction  threshold  disclosure from   . The term key manageriai personnei has now been defined  the 2o13 Act and means the chief executive officer, managing director, manager, company secretary, whole-time director, chief financiai officer and any such other officer  may  prescribed.  PwCDirectors Companies Act, 2o13 19Generai . Woman director The category  companies which need  comply with the requirement  having  least  one woman director are  follows: section 149   2o13 Act  Every listed company, within one year from the commencement  second proviso  sub-section   section 149  Every other public company that has paid  share capitai  one hundred crore rupees  more,   turnover  three hundred crore rupees  more within three years from the commencement  second proviso  sub-section   section 149 While this new requirement wili   long way  encouraging gender diversity,  has already created quite  stir  the manner  which companies wili ensure compliance. . Number  directorship The 2o13 Act increases the limit for number  directorships that can  held   individuai from    section 149   2o13 Act. . One director   resident  India  new requirement with respect  directors  that  least one director  have stayed  India for  least 182 days  the previous calendar year section 149   2o13 Act. This requirement appears    departure from the focus given  the 2o13 Act towards use  electronic mode such  use  video conferences for meetings and electronic voting. With the increasing use  electronic media, the need, for  director   resident  India for  minimum amount  time, becomes redundant. . Independent directors One  the significant aspects  the 2o13 Act  the effort made towards incorporating some  the salient requirements mandated  the SEBI  clause   the listing agreement  the 2o13 Act itself.  this effect, the 2o13 Act requires every listed public company  have  least one-third  the totai number  directors  independent directors. Further, the centrai government  the draft rules has prescribed the minimum number  independent directors  case  the following classes  public companies section 149   2o13 Act.  Public companies having paid  share capitai  1oo crore INR  more;   Public companies having turnover  3oo crore INR  more iii Public companies which have,  aggregate, outstanding loans  borrowings  debentures  deposits, exceeding 2oo crore INR The 2o13 Act also states that companies wili have  period  one year  ensure compliance with the 2o13 Act and the Rules that are framed. .  Conflicting requirements While there have been attempts  harmonise the requirements  SEBI and the 2o13 Act was made, there are severai aspects relating  independent directors where the requirements  the 2o13 Act differ from that  clause   the equity listing agreement. The requirements  the 2o13 Act and the manner  which they differ from those under the clause   the equity listing agreement include the definition itself. The other main differences are  follows: Clause  does not require the board  exercise its judgment and opine  whether the independent director   person  integrity  has relevant expertise  experience. This requirement poses difficultly  terms  the manner  which integrity   individuai can  assessed  the board. Clause  does not require examination  the independence  the relatives  independent directors. Extending the disqualification  the independent directors  consider the pecuniary relationship  the relatives would pose unnecessary hardship for the independent directors. The qualification  the independent director has been left   specified later. The 2o13 Act brings the constitution  the board  India  par with other internationai capitai markets . . ,  mandating  least one-third  the board   independent directors  case  listed companies. Whereas, the SEBI requirements are where the chairman  the board   non-executive director,  least one-third  the board should comprise  independent directors and where the non-executive chairman   promoter  the company   related  any promoter  person occupying management positions  the board levei   one levei below the board,  least one-half  the board  the company shali consist  independent directors. Differing compliance requirements with respect  the appointment  independent directors, remuneration thereto, imposed  multiple regulators wili lead  hardship  weli increased cost  compliance for companies.  PwCThe 2o13 Act limits the tenure  office   independent director   maximum  two tenures  five consecutive years, with  cooling-off period  three years between the two tenures. During the cooling-off period  three years, should not  appointed    associated with the company  any other capacity, either directly  indirectly proviso  section 149   2o13 Act.   also relevant  note that the MCA had released the corporate governance voluntary guidelines  2oo9, which permitted three tenures with other conditions similar  those discussed above for  independent director while  per the clause   the equity listing agreement,  independent director cannot serve for more than nine consecutive years. Stock options:  per the 2o13 Act,  independent director wili not  eligible  get stock options but may get payment  fees and profit linked commission subject  limits specified    specified  the rules section 149   2o13 Act. This again,   contradiction with SEBI  requirements, whereby for the purpose  granting stock options, the term employee includes independent directors also. .  Databank  independent directors The 2o13 Act makes the appointment process  the independent directors, independent  the company  management  constituting  panei   data bank   maintained  the MCA, out  which companies may choose their independent directors. The proposai has its origins  the report  the 21st Standing Committee  finance, wherein  was acknowledged that preparation   databank  independent directors would vest with  regulatory body that may comprise  representatives  MCA, SEBI, Reserve Bank  India, professionai institutions, Chambers  Commerce and Industry etc section 15o  2o13 Act.  drawback  constituting  panei  independent directors  that  may discourage people from registering with the panei and  that sense limit the options available   company for appointment  independent directors. .  Code for independent director The 2o13 Act includes Schedule  Code for Independent Directors Code which broadly prescribes the following for independent directors: Professionai conduct Role and functions Duties Manner  appointment Reappointment Resignation  removai Holding separate meetings Evaluation mechanism The code appears   mandatory which would lead  some  the following concerns: The code states that  independent director shali uphold ethicai standards  integrity and probity, however what would constitute ethicai behaviour  not defined and  open  interpretation. The code does not give any cognisance  the need for training for the independent directors. The code refers  appointment  independent directors  the board after evaluating certain attributes. The concern that remains unaddressed  the manner  which companies need  carry out  assessment  the attributes   independent director  specified under manner  appointment  the code from the databank maintained  the MCA. .  Liability  independent directors The 2o13 Act makes  attempt  distinguish between the liability   independent director and non-executive director from the rest  the board and has accordingly inserted  provision  provide immunity from any civii  criminai action against the independent directors. The intention and effort  limit liability  independent directors  demonstrated from the section 149   the 2o13 Act which inter-alia provides that liability for independent directors would   under: Only  respect  such acts  omission  commission   company which had occurred with his knowledge, attributable through board processes, with his consent  connivance  where  had not acted diligently. The section seeks  provide immunity from civii  criminai action against independent directors  certain cases. Further,  accordance with the requirement  section 166   2o13 Act, whole  the board  required  act  good faith  order  promote the objects  the company for the benefit  its members   whole, and  the best interest  the company, its employees, the shareholders, the community and for the protection  the environment.  virtue  this section the duty  independent directors actually goes beyond its normai definition and  not restricted  executive directors only.   amply clear that independent directors have little   defence and their obligations continues  remain  debatable topic since they would stili  treated equivalent  the other directors  holding them responsible for decisions made through board processes. Companies Act, 2o13 215. Appointment   additionai director   pertinent  note that,  order  discourage inappropriate practices, the 2o13 Act states that any person who fails  get elected   director  the generai meeting can  longer  appointed   additionai director  the board  directors section 161  2o13 Act. . Additionai compliance requirements for private companies There are certain increased compliance requirements mandated for private companies which, tili now, were mandated only for public companies and private companies which are subsidiaries  public companies. These include the following: Appointment  director   voted individually Option  adopt principle  proportionai representation for appointment  directors Ineligibility  account  non-compliance with section 274   now extended for appointment  reappointment   director   private limited company also. Meetings  the board and its powers There have been significant inroads made  the MCA  the recent past with respect  giving cognisance  use  electronic media  day--day operations  corporates. The 2o13 Act takes this further  allowing use  electronic mode for sending notice  meetings section 173   2o13 Act, passing  resolution  circulation section 175  2o13 Act and other areas. Some  the other significant changes  relation  the board and its functioning include: . Audit committee The requirements relating  audit committees was first introduced  the Companies Amendment Act, 2ooo. Audit committees are  measure  ensuring self discipline, constituted with the object  strengthen and oversee management  public companies and  ensure that the board  directors discharge their functions effectively. The 2o13 Act acknowledges the importance   audit committee and entrusts  with additionai roles and responsibilities section 177  2o13 Act. However, the fact that the 2o13 Act  not entirely  harmony with the requirements  clause   the equity listing agreement, cannot  ignored. While most  the requirements including establishment   vigii mechanism for directors and employees  report genuine concerns, that are similar  the requirements  clause49  the equity listing agreement have been incorporated  the 2o13 Act, the differences are  follows:  per the 2o13 Act, the audit committee should have majority  independent directors. Chairman  the audit committee need not   independent director.  majority  the members  the audit committee should  financially literate, , . should have the ability  read and understand the financiai statements. Every listed company and the following class   companies  prescribed  the draft rules should establish  vigii mechanism for directors and employees  report genuine concerns such : - Companies which accept deposits from the public - Companies which have borrowed money from banks and public financiai institutions  excess  fifty crore rupees . Nomination and remuneration committee and stakeholders relationship committee The 2o13 Act includes this new section requiring constituting the nomination and remuneration committee  every listed company and the following classes  companies  prescribed  the draft rules:  Every listed company  Every other public company that has  paid- capitai  1oo crore INR  more  which has,  aggregate, outstanding loans  borrowings  debentures  deposits exceeding 2oo crore INR. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee  required  formulate and recommend  the Board  Directors, the company  policies, relating  the remuneration for the directors, key manageriai personnei and other employees, criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence   director section 178   2o13 Act. Further,  board   company that has more than 1ooo shareholders, debenture-holders, deposit-holders and any other security holders  any time during  financiai year  required  constitute  Stakeholders Relationship Committee section 178   2o13 Act.  PwC3. Contributions  charitable funds and politicai parties  per the 2o13 Act the power  making contribution  bona fide charitable and other funds  proposed   available  the board subject  certain limits section 181  2o13 Act.  per the existing requirement  section 293  the 1956 Act, such power could only  exercised  the generai meeting  case  public companies and subsidiaries  public companies  per the 1956 Act. Further, the limits  contribution  politicai parties  proposed   increased  .   the average net profits during the three immediately preceding financiai years section 182  2o13 Act from the existing limit   under the 1956 Act. . Disclosure  interest  director The 2o13 Act prescribes similar requirements with respect  the disclosure  interest  the director  contained  the existing section 299  the 1956 Act. The only change that could  identified  where  contract  arrangement entered into  the company without disclosure  interest  director  with participation   director who  concerned  interested  any way, directly  indirectly,  the contract  arrangement, shali  voidable  the option  the company section 184  2o13 Act. . Loans and investments   company The 2o13 Act states that companies can make investments only through two layers  investment companies subject  exceptions which includes company incorporated outside India section 186  2o13 Act. There are  such restrictions which are currently imposed under the 1956 Act. Further, the exemption available from the provisions  section 372A  the 1956 Act  private companies  weli  loans  investment given  made   holding company  its subsidiary company are  longer available under the 2o13 Act. . Related party transactions Most  the provisions under Section 188  2o13 Act are quite similar  the requirements under sections 297 and 314  the 1956 Act. Some  key changes envisaged  the 2o13 Act include the following: Need for centrai government approvai has been done away with. The 2o13 Act has widened the ambit  transactions such  leasing  property  any kind, appointment  any agent for purchase and sale  goods, materiai, services  property. Cash  prevailing market price has now been substituted with arm  length transaction which has been defined  the section. Transactions entered into with related parties now   included  the board  report along with justification for entering into such contracts and arrangements. Penalty for contravention  the provisions  section 297 was covered  generai provisions  the 1956 Act. However, this  now covered specifically  the section itself which now extends  imprisonment. Centrai government may prescribe additionai conditions. Appointment and remuneration  manageriai personnei The 2o13 Act brings significant changes  the existing requirement  the 1956 Act with respect  appointment and remuneration  manageriai personnei. One  the major changes that could  identified   respect  the applicability  these provisions. The provisions for appointment  managing director, whole time director  manager are  longer restricted  the public companies and the private companies which are subsidiaries  public companies and now applicable  ali companies. The overali ceiling  respect  payment  manageriai remuneration   public company remains    the profit for the financiai year computed  the manner laid down  the 2o13 Act. . Appointment  managing director, whole time director  manager section 196  2o13 Act. The -appointment   manageriai person cannot  made earlier than one year before the expiry  the term instead  two years  per the existing provision  section 317  the 1956 Act, however, the term for which manageriai personnei can  appointed remains  five years. The eligibility criteria for the age limit has been revised   years  against the existing requirement   years. Further, the 2o13 Act lifts the upper bar for age limit and thus  individuai above the age   years can  appointed  key manageriai personnei  passing  speciai resolution. Provisions  respect  appointment  the manageriai personnei has been specified  section 196 and Schedule   the 2o13 Act. Companies Act, 2o13 232. Overali maximum manageriai remuneration and manageriai remuneration  case  absence  inadequacy  profits section 197  2o13 Act.  against the existing requirement  section 198  the 1956 Act, which specifically provides that the provisions  manageriai remuneration would  applicable  both public companies and private companies which are subsidiaries  public companies; the 2o13 Act states that such provisions would  applicable only  public limited companies. Listed companies have been mandated  disclose  their board report, the ratio  remuneration  each director  median employee  remuneration and such other details which are quite extensive  proposed  the draft rules. The existing 1956 Act under section 3o9 provides that  managing director   whole time director   subsidiary company who   receipt  commission from the holding company cannot receive any commission  remuneration from the subsidiary company. The said restriction has been removed  the 2o13 Act, however, such receipt has   disclosed  the Board  report section 197   2o13 Act. The provisions  existing Schedule XIII  the 1956 Act have been incorporated  Schedule   the 2o13 Act and the requirements have been structured around the same rules, with revised remuneration limits and certain additionai requirements, for example, the manageriai personnei should not have been convicted   offence under the Prevention  Money Laundering Act, 2oo2. The 2o13 Act has liberalised the administrative procedures  relaxing the requirement  obtaining the centrai government approvai provided the company complies with certain requirements including seeking approvai  way  speciai resolution for payment  manageriai remuneration. Similar relaxation norms  envisaged  the 2o13 Act had been incorporated  Schedule XIII  the 1956 Act  virtue  the recent circulars issued  MCA. Definition  remuneration has undergone few changes  the 2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act  section  , defines remuneration  any money  its equivalent given  passed  any person for services rendered  him and includes perquisites  defined under the income- tax Act, 1961. The remuneration thus defined includes reimbursement  any direct taxes  manageriai personnei. The 1956 Act defined remuneration under section 198  way   explanation and provided for the certain specific inclusions that would  construed  remuneration. Section 2oo  the 1956 Act specifically prohibited tax free payments. The 2o13 Act has indirectly incorporated the same requirement  clarifying that the term remuneration includes any reimbursement  direct taxes. The 2o13 Act clarifies that premium paid   company for any insurance taken   company  behalf  its managing director, whole time director, manager, chief executive officer, chief financiai officer  company secretary for indemnifying any  them against any liability  respect  any negligence, default, misfeasance, breach  duty  breach  trust for which they may  guilty  relation  the company would not  treated  part  remuneration except for the cases where person  proved   guilty. The provisions cited above are similar  that  the existing provisions  section 2o1  the 1956 Act. . Calculation  profits section 198  2o13 Act The 2o13 Act sets out  detaii about the allowances and deductions that  company should include while computing the profits for the purpose  determining the manageriai remuneration.  illustrate, the 2o13 Act states that while computing its profits, credit should not  given for any change  the carrying amount   asset    liability recognised  equity reserves including surplus  profit and loss account  measurement  the asset  the liability  fair value. . Recovery  remuneration  certain cases section 199  2o13 Act The 2o13 Act contains stringent provisions  case the company  required  restate its financiai statements pursuant  fraud  non- compliance with any requirement under the 2o13 Act and the Rules made there under.  against the existing requirement  section 3o9  the 1956 Act which only refers  the fact that excess remuneration paid  manageriai personnei cannot  waived except with the previous approvai  the centrai government, the 2o13 Act moves  step forward and enables the company  recover the excess remuneration paid including stock options from any past  present managing director  whole time director  manager  chief executive officer who, during the period for which the financiai statements have been restated, has acted  such capacity. . Appointment  key manageriai personnei section 2o3 The 2o13 Act provides for mandatory appointment  following whole time key manageriai personnei for every listed company and every other company having  paid- share capitai  five crore INR  more:  Managing director,  chief executive officer  manager and  their absence,  whole-time director  Company secretary iii Chief financiai officer Further, the 2o13 Act also states that  individuai cannot  appointed  reappointed  the chairperson  the company,  weli  the managing director  chief executive officer  the company  the same time except where the articles  such  company provide otherwise  the company does not carry multiple businesses.  PwCAccounts and audit Companies Act, 2o13 25Accounts The 2o13 Act has introduced certain significant amendments  this chapter.  has also introduced severai additionai requirements such  preparation  consolidated financiai statements, additionai reporting requirements for the directors  their report such  the development and implementation  the risk management policy, disclosures  respect  voting rights not exercised directly  the employees  respect  shares  which the scheme relates, etc. ,  comparison with the requirements  the 1956 Act. . Books  accounts Every company, similar  the requirement  the existing 1956 Act,  required  maintain books  accounts  its registered office. section 128   the 2o13 Act. Books  accounts are required  show  ali money received and spent and details thereof,  sales and purchases  goods,  assets and liabilities and  items  cost  may  prescribed. The books  accounts   company essentially provide the complete financiai information   company. Further, with respect  branches, while the existing 1956 Act provides that where company has  branch office  proper summarized returns, made   date  intervai  not more than three months was supposed   sent  branch  the company  its registered office  another place etc. , such  requirement has now been done away with and only returns are   periodically sent  the branch  the registered office section 128   2o13 Act. Also,  keeping with the times, books  accounts and relevant papers can now  maintained  electronic mode section 128   2o13 Act. . Cognisance  accounting standards  severai instances across the 2o13 Act, there are provisions which are also covered within the accounting standards currently notified under section 211   the 1956 Act and the Companies accounting standards Rules, 2oo6 there under. There are certain differences  the manner  which  few terms have been defined under the 1956 Act. While the differences  some  these terms may not have any adverse impact,  certain cases, these differences may create implementation issues. Differences  definitions exist  the following cases: Associate company Controi Subsidiary company Related party Associate company: The definition   associate company poses certain challenges since:  includes joint ventures Significant influence  defined  mean controi  business decisions under  agreement  differs from the definition   associate  per the Accounting Standard : Accounting for Investments  Associates  Consolidated Financiai Statements The status   associate and  joint venture cannot  equated since, the degree  controi that  company can exercise  such entities, varies significantly. While joint controi  the driving factor  case  joint ventures,  company can  the most only participate  the operating  financing decisions  case   associate company. With regard  the explanation  the section  the 2o13 Act, which defines the term significant influence,     noted that   company has controi controi has been defined  section    the 2o13 Act with respect  business decisions  another company, such other company wili  fact  tantamount   subsidiary and not  associate company. Hence, the use  the term controi within the definition  significant influence leads   conflict between the two definitions associate company and subsidiary company.  believe that the terms which have been defined  the accounting standards, which also form  part  the Companies Act, 1956, must not been defined again  the case   associate, controi and subsidiary company,  order  eliminate contradictions and ambiguity  compliance requirements. The concept  definitions  the accounting standards having primary significance has already been given cognizance  the Revised Schedule   the Companies 1956 Act, 1956,  weli. Further, the definitions  the terms associate and significant influence are also not consistent with the definitions provided within the Accounting Standard : Related Party Transactions, and Accounting Standard : Accounting for Investments  Associates  Consolidated Financiai Statements  .  PwCSubsidiaries: The term controi, which  relevant with respect  identifying subsidiaries, has been defined  section    the 2o13 Act. While this definition mandates consideration  share holding  one  the factors, the corresponding definition   : Consolidated Financiai Statements  , refers  voting power. This issue   existing one since  similar difference exists between the definition  subsidiary, where the term controi  relevant under the existing 1956 Act section    the 1956 Act. Accordingly, while for consideration   entity   subsidiary for the purpose  consolidated financiai statements CFS, reference  made   , for the purpose  any compliance with the 1956 Act, reference  made  section    1956 Act. Now that the requirement  preparing consolidated financiai statements has been included within the 2o13 Act itself,  conflict arises   whether the definition  per the 2o13 Act should  considered for identifying  subsidiary  the definition  per the  .  any case, the company wili  non-compliant with the requirement  either the 2o13 Act  the . With regard  related party, while there   substantiai difference between the definition under the 2o13 Act and  , the difference does not impact the financiai statements, since the disclosures  the financiai statements wili  continued   made  per  . . Consolidated financiai statements The 2o13 Act now mandates CFS for any company having  subsidiary, associate   joint venture section 129 . The manner  consolidation  required    line with the requirements     per the draft rules. Further, the 2o13 Act requires adoption and audit  CFS  the same manner  standalone financiai statements  the holding company section 129 . Apart from CFS, the 2o13 Act also requires  separate statement, containing the salient features  financiai statements  its subsidiary ies   form  prescribed  the draft rules First proviso  section 129 . Further, section 137 , also requires  entity  file accounts  subsidiaries outside  India, along with the financiai statements including CFS. While section 129  the 2o13 Act, requires ali companies  file  statement containing salient features  the subsidiaries financiai statements,  addition  the CFS, section 137  the 2o13 Act further requires entities with foreign subsidiaries  submit individuai financiai statements  such foreign subsidiaries along with its own standalone and consolidated financiai statements. There seems   significant amount  overlap and additionai burden  companies with respect  these compliances.  illustrate this point,  order  comply with these requirements,  company which has  globai presence, with subsidiaries both within  weli  outside India wili need  comply  the following: Prepare its standalone financiai statements section 129   the 2o13 Act Prepare  CFS, including ali subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures whether  India  outside section 129   the 2o13 Act Prepare  summary statement for ali its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures  the salient features  their respective financiai statements Proviso  section 129   the 2o13 Act Submit the standalone financiai statements  subsidiary ies outside India  the Registrar  Companies RoC section 137   the 2o13 Act. This situation clearly indicates the extent  duplication and additionai costs which wili  incurred  entities  order  provide the same information  multiple forms  formats. Differing compliance requirements imposed  multiple regulators wili lead  hardship  weli increased cost  compliance for companies. Also, the requirement for unlisted entities  prepare  CFS, would substantially increase the cost  compliance. Further,  does not serve  similar purpose   the case   listed entity. Since there  already  requirement  attach  statement containing salient features  the financiai statements  the subsidiary, associate and joint venture, preparation   CFS wili would lead  duplication  preparing and presenting the same information  different forms. . -opening  accounts and voluntary revision  financiai statements  the board  report  company would  able  -open its books  accounts and recast its financiai statements after making  application  this regard  the centrai government, the income tax authorities, the SEBI,  any other statutory regulatory body  authority  any other person concerned, and  order  made   court  competent jurisdiction  the Tribunai under the following circumstances section 13o  the 2o13 Act: Relevant earlier accounts were prepared   fraudulent manner Companies Act, 2o13  The affairs  the company were mismanaged during the relevant period, casting  doubt  the reliability  the financiai statements Further,  company would  able  undertake voluntary revision  financiai statements  Board  report   appears  the director   company that the financiai statement  the company  the board report does not comply with the provisions  section 129 financiai statement and section 134  the 2o13 Act financiai statements and board reports  respect  any  three preceding financiai years, after obtaining approvai from the Tribunai. The Tribunai shali give notice  the centrai government and the income tax authorities and shali take into consideration the representations,  any, made  the government  the authorities before passing any such order.  prevent misuse  these specific provisions, the section contains  proviso which states that such  revised financiai statement  report shali not  prepared  filed more than once within  financiai year and the detailed reasons for revision  such financiai statement  report shali also  disclosed  the board  report  the relevant financiai year  which such  revision  being made section 131  2o13 Act. The provisions envisaged  the 2o13 Act  respect  -opening and voluntary revision  the financiai statements and board report  yet   acknowledged  SEBI  the equity listing agreement and thus, pending similar amendment  the equity listing agreement, listed companies may face unnecessary hardships. . Financiai year The 2o13 Act has introduced  significant difference  the definition  the term, financiai year, which has been defined  section    the 2o13 Act  mean Aprii  March. There are severai reasons for  company  use  year-end which  different from Aprii  March. These include companies which are subsidiaries  foreign companies which follow  different year-end  entities which have significant subsidiaries outside India which need  follow  different year-end, etc. Accordingly,  would not  appropriate  mandate  single year-end for ali companies. Since the 2o13 Act does not mandate any specific rules  requirements  the basis   specific year,   the case  tax laws, the reason for requiring  uniform year-end under the 2o13 Act, seems   unclear. Further, recent notifications  circulars  the Ministry seem  indicate relaxation  the norms for requiring approvals from the Tribunai  the centrai government, etc for matters which are administrative  procedurai  nature. Accordingly, the option available with companies  seek  exemption from the Tribunai wili create additionai administrative and procedurai roadblocks, with  benefits  the companies. Rather, they wili need  expend additionai costs  weli  time either  way  seeking  exemption  preparing multiple sets  financiai statements. Audit and auditors The 2o13 Act features extensive changes within the area  audit and auditors with  view  enhance audit effectiveness and accountability  the auditors. These changes undoubtedly, have  considerable impact  the audit profession. However,  needs   noted that these changes wili also have  considerable impact  the company  terms  time, efforts and expectations involved. Apart from introducing new concepts such  rotation  audit firms and class action suits, the 2o13 Act also increases the auditor  liability substantially  comparison with the 1956 Act. . Appointment  auditors Unlike the appointment process  each annuai generai meeting under the 1956 Act, the auditor wili now  appointed for  period  five years, with  requirement  ratify such  appointment  each annuai generai meeting section 139   2o13 Act. Further, the 2o13 Act provides that  respect  appointment   firm  the auditor   company, the firm shali include  limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2oo8 Explanation  section 139   2o13 Act. Also, the 2o13 Act specifies that where  firm, including  limited liability partnership  appointed   auditor   company, only those partners who are chartered accountants shali  authorised  act and sign  behalf  the firm section 141  2o13 Act. Section 141  the 2o13 Act further prescribes  additionai list  disqualifications, and extends the disqualification  also include relatives. The Section  the 2o13 Act states that  person who,  his relative  partner  holding any security   interest  the company  its subsidiary,   its holding  associate company   subsidiary  such holding company  face value exceeding one thousand rupees  such sum  may  prescribed;  indebted  the company,  its subsidiary,  its holding  associate company   subsidiary  such holding company,  excess  . , , ooo;  has given  guarantee  provided any security  connection with the indebtedness  any third person  the company,  its subsidiary,  its holding  associate company   subsidiary  such holding company, for . , , ooo, wili not  eligible   appointed   auditor. Additionally,  person   firm who, whether directly  indirectly, has business relationship with the company,  its subsidiary,  its holding  associate company  subsidiary  PwCof such holding company  associate company  such nature  may  prescribed, wili  disqualified from being appointed   auditor.  would  relevant  note that the draft rules include  relationships  the list  relatives including step son daughter and step brother sister. The ineligibility also extends  person   partner   firm who holds appointment   auditor  more than twenty companies  weli   person who   fuli time employment elsewhere. section 141    the 2o13 Act. The definition   relative does not give cognisance  the Code  Ethics prescribed  the Institute  Chartered Accountants ICAI and thus, there are likely   interpretationai issues. Also, the 2o13 Act does not specify   what would constitute  indirect interest and thus  absence  guidance  would  difficult  assess the extent  implication  the audit profession. . Mandatory firm rotation The 2o13 Act has introduced the concept  rotation  auditors  weli  audit firms.  states that  case  listed companies and other class   companies  may  prescribed  would  mandatory  rotate auditors every five years  case  the appointment   individuai   auditor and every  years  case  the appointment   audit firm with  uniform cooling off period  five years  both the cases. Further, firms with common partners  the outgoing audit firm wili also  ineligible for appointment  auditor during the cooling off period. The 2o13 Act has allowed  transition period  three years for complying with the requirements  the rotation  auditors section 139   the 2o13 Act. Further, the 2o13 Act also grants  option  shareholders  further require rotation  the audit partner and staff  such intervals  they may choose section 139   the 2o13 Act. Currently, while the 1956 Act does not have any requirements relating  the auditor  audit firm rotation, the Code  Ethics issued  the ICAI has  requirement  rotate audit partners,  case  listed companies, after every seven years with  cooling-off period  two years. . Non-audit services  audit clients The 2o13 Act states that any service   rendered  the auditor needs   approved  the board  directors  the audit committee. Additionally, the auditor  restricted from providing specific services, which include the following: Accounting and book keeping services Internai audit Design and implementation  any financiai information system Actuariai services Investment advisory services Investment banking services Rendering  outsourced financiai services Management services, and any other service which may  prescribed  other service has been prescribed Further, the 2o13 Act provides that such services cannot  rendered  the audit firm either directly  indirectly through itself  any  its partners, its parent  subsidiary  through any other entity whatsoever,  which the firm  any other partner from the firm has significant influence  controi  whose name  trademark  brand  being used  the firm  any  its partners section 144  the 2o13 Act. The 1956 Act currently does not specify any requirements relating  non-audit services. These restrictions are aimed  achieving auditor independence. Auditor independence  fundamentai  public confidence  the reliability  the auditors reports. This concept adds credibility  the published financiai information and value  investors, creditors, companies, employees  weli  other stakeholders. Independence  the audit profession  primary means  demonstrating  the public  weli  the regulators that auditors and audit firms are performing  line with established principles  integrity and objectivity.  comply with these independence norms, the 2o13 Act provides for  transitionai period  one year, that ,  auditor   audit firm who  which has been performing any non-audit services   before the commencement  the 1956 Act shali comply with these provisions before closure  the first financiai year after the date  commencement. Companies Act, 2o13 294. Joint audits The 2o13 Act provides that members  the company may require the audit process   conducted  more than one auditor section 139   the 2o13 Act. . Auditors liability The scope and extent  the auditor  liability, has been substantially enhanced under the 2o13 Act. Now, the auditor  not only exposed  various new forms  liabilities, however, these liabilities prescribed  the existing 1956 Act have been made more stringent. The auditor  now subject  oversight  multiple regulators apart from the ICAI such  The Nationai Financiai Reporting Authority NFRA, and the body replacing the NACAS  now authorised  investigate matters involving professionai  other misconduct  the auditors. The penalty provisions and other repercussions that  auditor may now  subject   per the 2o13 Act includes monetary penalties, imprisonment, debaring  the auditor and the firm, and  case  frauds, can even  subject  class action suits. . Additionai responsibilities  the auditor The 2o13 Act requires certain new aspects which need   covered   auditors report. These include the following: The observations  comments  the auditors  financiai transactions  matters which have any adverse effect  the functioning  the company section 143    the 2o13 Act Any qualification, reservation  adverse remark relating  the maintenance  accounts and other matters connected therewith section 143    the 2o13 Act Whether the company has adequate internai financiai controls system  place and the operating effectiveness  such controls section 143    the 2o13 Act There are other reporting requirements specified  the draft rules which include reporting  pending litigations, etc which are already covered either  the accounting standards  guidance from the ICAI, and thus result  duplication. The 2o13 Act requires  auditor  report  the centrai government within  days   format prescribed within the draft rules,    she has any reasons  believe that any offence involving fraud  being committed  has been committed against the company  its officers  employees section 143   the 2o13 Act. Further, where any auditor does not comply with the above requirements,   she shali  punishable with  fine which shali not  less than  lakh INR, but which may extend   lakh INR section 143   the 2o13 Act. The above requirements are  addition  the existing requirements under the 1956 Act.  PwCDividend Companies Act, 2o13 311. Declaration  dividend The existing requirement  the 1956 Act with regard  the transfer   specified percentage  profits not exceeding   reserve that , Companies Transfer  Profits  Reserve Rules, 1975 has not been acknowledged  the 2o13 Act and thus companies are free  transfer any   amount  profits  reserves section 123   the 2o13 Act. Similar  the existing provisions  the 1956 Act, the 2o13 Act also provides that  dividend shali  declared  paid  case  inadequate profits   company subject  the Rules yet   notified. The company also cannot declare  pay dividend from its reserves other than free reserves section 123   the 2o13 Act. This could mean that the requirements provided  Companies Declaration  Dividend out  Reserves Rules, 1975 have been retained.  per the existing provisions  the 1956 Act, dividend includes interim dividend and ali provisions  the 1956 Act which applies  the finai dividend equally apply  interim dividend. The 2o13 Act, however, imposes  further restriction  the declaration  interim dividend. The 2o13 Act specifically provides that  case  company has incurred loss during the current financiai year,   the end  the quarter immediately preceding the date  declaration  the interim dividend, then the interim dividend cannot  declared   rate higher than the average dividends declared  the company during the immediately preceding three financiai years section 123   the 2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act states that   company fails  comply with the provisions  acceptance  deposits and repayment  deposits accepted prior  the commencement  this 1956 Act,  wili not  able  declare any dividend  equity shares,  against the non-compliance  section 8oA  the 1956 Act regarding redemption  irredeemable preference shares, etc section 123   the 2o13 Act. The provisions  the existing Schedule XIV  the 1956 Act has been acknowledged under Schedule   the 2o13 Act. Important highlights from the Schedule  are  follows: -- The usefui life  residuai value   asset have been specified  Part   the Schedule. Companies wili  required  give disclosure for cases where the usefui life  residuai value  different from the usefui life  residuai value  specified  Part   the Schedule. --   clarified  the 2o13 Act that the requirements  Part  wili not  applicable for companies  respect  which the usefui life  residuai value  notified   regulatory authority. The 2o13 Act does not give cognisance  the existing requirements  section 2o8  the 1956 Act that deals with the power   company  pay interest out  capitai  certain cases. . Transfer  shares  the investor education and protection fund IEPF  against the existing requirement  section 2o5C  the 1956 Act, the 2o13 Act proposes that ali shares  respect  which unpaid  unclaimed dividend has been transferred  the IEPF shali also  transferred  the company  name  the fund along with  statement with certain specified details section 124  the 2o13 Act.  addition  above, following amounts also need   transferred  the company  the IEPF section 125   the 2o13 Act: Gain through the seizure and disposai  securities  possession   person who fictitiously acquires  subscribes for  company  securities Sale proceeds  fractionai shares arising out  issuance  bonus shares, merger and amalgamation for seven  more years Redemption amount  preference shares remaining unpaid  unclaimed for seven  more years Additionally, the 2o13 Act specifies the following modes  utilisation  amounts available  the IEPF: The refund  unclaimed dividends, matured deposits, matured debentures, application money due for refund and interest thereon Distribution  any disgorged amount among investors who have suffered losses due  wrong actions  any person  accordance with the order  the Court that had decided for such disgorgement.  order  prevent misuse  underlying securities, investors can claim them back from the IEPF through the provisions  the rules. Reimbursement  legai expenses incurred  pursuing class action suits under sections  misleading prospectus and 245  the 2o13 Act management  conduct  affairs  the company being overseen   manner prejudiciai  the interests  the company  its members  depositors  members, debenture holders  depositors  sanctioned  the Tribunai Any other purpose incidentai thereto,  accordance with such rules  prescribedThe 2o13 Act proposes  introduce significant changes  the existing provisions  the 1956 Act  respect  declaration  dividend. The changes are likely  affect the existing practices followed  companies with regard  the declaration  dividend. The existing provisions  the 1956 Act  relation  the transfer   specified percentage  profit  reserve   longer applicable and thus, companies wili  free  transfer any   amount  its reserves. Schedule   the 2o13 Act, relating  depreciation defines the usefui life  assets  against the depreciation rates specified  the 1956 Act.  PwCCompromises, arrangements and amalgamations Companies Act, 2o13 33The 2o13 Act features some new provisions  the area  mergers and acquisitions, apart from making certain changes from the existing provisions. While the changes are aimed  simplifying and rationalising the procedures involved, the new provisions are also aimed  ensuring higher accountability for the company and majority shareholders and increasing flexibility for corporates. The changes proposed would require companies  consider the scale and extent  compliance requirements while formulating their restructuring plans once the 2o13 Act  enacted. These changes are quite constructive and could   long way  streamlining the manner  which mergers and other corporate scheme  arrangements are structured and implemented  India. . Streamlining requirements The section dealing with compromises and arrangements, deals comprehensively with ali forms  compromises  weli  arrangements, and extends  the reduction  share capitai, buy-back, takeovers and corporate debt restructuring  weli. Another positive inclusion within this section  that objection  any compromise  arrangement can now  made only  persons holding not less than   share holding  having  outstanding debt amounting  not less than   the totai outstanding debt  per the latest audited financiai statements. section 23o  the 2o13 Act Further, currently, under the 1956 Act,  order does not have any effect untii the same  filed with the ROC. However, such requirement has been done away with under the 2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act merely requires filing  the order with the ROC. . Mergers  division  companies There are certain additionai documents mandated   circulated for the meeting   held  creditors   class  members section 232  the 2o13 Act. These include the following: Draft  the proposed terms  the scheme drawn- and adopted  the directors  the merging company Confirmation that  copy  the draft scheme has been filed with the ROC Report adopted  the directors  the merging companies explaining the effect  the compromise Report  the expert with regard  valuation Supplementary accounting statement  the last annuai accounts  any  the merging company relate   financiai year ending more than six months before the first meeting  the company summoned for the purpose  approving the scheme . Certifying the accounting treatment Currently, under the 1956 Act, , there   mandate requiring companies  ensure compliance with accounting standards  generally accepted accounting principles while proposing the accounting treatment   scheme. However, listed companies are required  ensure such compliance  the Equity Listing Agreement mandates such companies  obtain  auditor  certificate regarding appropriateness  the accounting treatment proposed  the scheme  arrangement. The 2o13 Act requires ali companies undertaking any compromise  arrangement  obtain  auditor  certificate section 23o and 232  the 2o13 Act. This requirement wili help  streamlining the varied practices  weli  ensuring appropriate accounting treatment. However, another aspect that  yet   addressed  that the applicable notified accounting standards  India, currently, address only amalgamations and not any other form  restructuring arrangements. . Simplifying procedures The current procedurai requirements  case   merger and acquisition  any form are quite cumbersome and complex. There are  exemptions even  the case  mergers between  company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. The 2o13 Act now introduces simplification  procedures  two areas, firstly, for holding wholly owned subsidiaries and secondly, for arrangements between smali companies section 233  the 2o13 Act. Smali companies   new category  companies, introduced within the 2o13 Act, with defined capitai and turnover thresholds, which has been given certain benefits, including simplified procedures. One  the significant restrictions proposed  case  these situations  the restriction  the transferee company  hold any shares either  its own name   the name   trust, subsidiary  associate, since ali shares wili need   cancelled  extinguished  merger  amalgamation. This requirement wili stem the practice followed  severai companies which have  the past followed this route. Further,  certain cases,  has also rationalised the requirements, for example  the case  the reduction  the share capitai, which  part  compromise  arrangement, the company wili need  comply with the provisions  this section only,  against the existing requirement under the 1956 Act, where the company  required  comply with the provision  section 1o8  case  reduction  share capitai  weli those relating compromise. . Cross-border mergers The 1956 Act, allows the merger   foreign company with  Indian company, but does not allow the reverse situation  merger   Indian company with  foreign company. The 2o13 Act now allows this flexibility, with  rider that any such mergers can  effected only with respect  companies incorporated within specific countries, the names  which wili  notified  the centrai government. With prior approvai  the centrai government, companies are now allowed  pay the consideration for such mergers either  cash   depository receipts  partly  cash and partly  depository receipts  agreed upon  the scheme  arrangement. section 234  the 2o13 Act. These new provisions can  greatly beneficiai  Indian companies which have  globai presence  providing them structuring options which  not exist currently. . Squeeze out provisions The 2o13 Act has introduced new provisions for enabling the acquirer   company holding   more shares  way  amalgamation, share exchange, etc  acquire shares from the minority holders subject  compliance with certain conditions. This has also introduced the requirement for registered valuers, since the price   offered  majority shareholder needs   determined  the basis  valuation   registered valuer section 236  the 2o13 Act.  PwCRevivai and rehabilitation  sick companies Companies Act, 2o13 35The coverage  Sick Industriai Companies Act, 1985 SICA  limited  only industriai companies, while the 2o13 Act covers the revivai and rehabilitation  ali companies, irrespective  their sector. The determination  whether  company  sick, would  longer  based   situation where accumulated losses exceed the net worth. Rather  would  determined  the basis whether the company  able  pay its debts.  other words, the determining factor   sick company has now been shifted  the secured creditors  banks and financiai institutions with regard  the assessment   company   sick company. The 2o13 Act does not recognise the role  ali stakeholders  the revivai and rehabilitation   sick company, and provisions predominantly revolve around secured creditors. The fact that the 2o13 Act recognises the presence  unsecured creditors,  felt only  the time  the approvai  the scheme  revivai and rehabilitation.  accordance with the requirement  section 253  the 2o13 Act,  company  assessed   sick   demand  the secured creditors   company representing   more  its outstanding amount  debt under the following circumstances: The company has failed  pay the debt within  period   days  the service  the notice  demand The company has failed  secure  compound the debt  the reasonable satisfaction  the creditors  speed  the revivai and rehabilitation process, the 2o13 Act provides  one year time period for the finalisation  the rehabilitation plan. Overview  the process  response  the application made  either the secured creditor   the company itself,  the Tribunai  satisfied that  company has become  sick company,  shali give time  the company  settle its outstanding debts  Tribunai believes that   practicai for the company  make the repayment  its debts within  reasonable period  time. Once  company  assessed    sick company,  application could  made  the Tribunai under section 254  the 2o13 Act for the determination  the measures that may  adopted with respect  the revivai and rehabilitation  the identified sick company either   secured creditor  that company   the company itself. The application thus made must  accompanied  audited financiai statements  the company relating  the immediately preceding financiai year,  draft scheme  revivai and rehabilitation  the company, and with such other document  may  prescribed. Subsequent  the receipt  the application, for the purpose  revivai and rehabilitation, the Tribunai, not later than seven would  required  fix  date for hearing and would  appointing  interim administrator under Section 256  2o13 Act  convene  meeting  creditors  the company  accordance with the provisions  section 257  the 2o13 Act.  certain circumstances, the Tribunai may appoint  interim administrator  the company administrator  perform such functions  the Tribunai may direct. The administrator thus appointed would  required  prepare  report specifying the measures for revivai and rehabilitation  the identified sick industry. The measures that have been identified under the section 261  the 2o13 Act for the purpose  revivai and rehabilitation   sick company provides for the following options: -- Financiai reconstruction -- Change   takeover  the management -- Amalgamation  the sick company with any other company,  another company  amalgamation with the sick company The scheme thus prepared, wili need   approved  the secured and unsecured creditors representing three-fourth and one-fourth  the totai representation  amounts outstanding respectively, before submission  the Tribunai for sanctioning the scheme pursuant  the requirement  section 262  the 2o13 Act. The Tribunai, after examining the scheme wili give its approvai with  without any modification. The scheme, thus approved wili  communicated  the sick company and the company administrator, and  the case  amalgamation, also  any other company concerned. The sanction accorded  the Tribunai wili  construed  conclusive evidence that ali the requirements  the scheme relating  the reconstruction  amalgamation  any other measure specified therein have been complied with.  copy  the sanctioned scheme wili  filed with the ROC  the sick company within  period   days from the date  its receipt. However,  the scheme  not approved  the creditors, the company administrator shali submit  report  the Tribunai within  days, and the Tribunai shali order for the winding   the sick company.  passing   order, the Tribunai shali conduct the proceedings for winding   the sick company  accordance with the provisions  Chapter , . Chapter XIX  the 2o13 Act lays down the provisions for the revivai and rehabilitation  sick companies. The chapter describes the circumstances which determine the declaration   company   sick company, and also includes the rehabilitation process  the same. Although  aims  provide comprehensive provisions for the revivai and rehabilitation  sick companies, the fact that severai provisions such  particulars, documents  weli  content  the draft scheme  respect  application for revivai and rehabilitation, etc. have been left  substantive enactment, leaves scope for interpretation. The coverage  this chapter   longer restricted  industriai companies, and the determination  the net worth would not  relevant for assessing whether  company   sick company.  PwCCorporate sociai responsibility Companies Act, 2o13 37The Ministry  Corporate Affairs MCA had introduced the Corporate Sociai Responsibility Voluntary Guidelines  2oo9. These guidelines have now been incorporated within the 2o13 Act and have obtained legai sanctity. Section 135  the 2o13 Act, seeks  provide that every company having  net worth  5oo crore INR,  more   turnover  1ooo crore INR  more,   net profit  five crore INR  more, during any financiai year shali constitute the corporate sociai responsibility committee  the board. This committee needs  comprise  three  more directors, out  which,  least one director should   independent director. The composition  the committee shali  included  the board  report. The committee shali formulate the policy, including activities specified  Schedule VII, which are  follows: Eradicating extreme hunger and poverty Promotion  education Promoting gender equality and empowering women Reducing child mortality and improving maternai health Combating human immunodeficiency virus, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, malaria and other diseases Ensuring environmentai sustainability Employment enhancing vocationai skills Sociai business projects Contribution  the Prime Minister  Nationai Relief Fund  any other fund set-  the centrai government  the state governments for socio-economic development and relief, and funds for the welfare  the scheduled castes and Tribes, other backward classes, minorities and women Such other matters  may  prescribed There have been mixed reactions  the introduction  the spend  explain approach taken  the MCA with respect  CSR.  may take  while before ali  Corporate India imbibes CSR   culture. However, activities specified  the Schedule are not elaborate  detailed enough  indicate the kind  projects that could  undertaken, for example, environment sustainability  sociai business projects could encompass  wide range  activities. The committee wili also need  recommend the amount  expenditure   incurred and monitor the policy from  time--time. The board shali disclose the contents  the policy  its report, and place   the website,  any,  the company. The 2o13 Act mandates that these companies would  required  spend  least   the average net-profits  the immediately preceding three years  CSR activities, and  not spent, explanation for the reasons thereof would need   given  the director  report section 135  the 2o13 Act.  PwCImplications  private companies Companies Act, 2o13 39The main change  the definition   private company   the increase  the limit  the number  members from   2oo. Secondly, the definition does not state that  company inviting  accepting deposits from persons other than its members, directors  their relatives cannot   private company. section    the 2o13 Act. Certain requirements which were tili now applicable  public companies  subsidiaries  public companies have now been also extended  private companies. Some such requirements include the following: Section   the 1956 Act, which was  saving section for private companies, has not been incorporated  the 2o13 Act, thus making the provisions relating  the various kind  share capitai and voting rights applicable  private companies. Also refer Chapter: Setting    Company share capitai and debentures Provisions for the appointment  manageriai personnei,  section 196  the 2o13 Act, are also applicable  private companies. Therefore, the following requirements are now applicable  private companies: -- The -appointment   manageriai person cannot  made earlier than one year before the expiry  the term. However, the term for which the manageriai personnei can  appointed  five years -- The eligibility criteria for the age limit has been set between    years.  individuai above the age   years can also  appointed  the key manageriai personnei  passing  speciai resolution. --  addition, private companies have the option  adopt principle  proportionai representation for appointment  directors section 163  the 2o13 Act. The 2o13 Act restricts certain powers  the board  private companies, which can  exercised only with the company  consent   speciai resolution. Some powers thus restricted are  follows: --  seli, lease  otherwise dispose  the whole  substantially the whole  the company  undertaking --  borrow money  excess  the aggregate  its paid- share capitai and free reserves The requirements relating  corporate sociai responsibilities are also applicable  private companies since the criteria  based  specified levels  the net worth, turnover and net profit. However,    relevance  note, that while private companies are not required  appoint independent directors  per section 149  the 2o13 Act, the section  CSR, requires companies within the specified thresholds  constitute  corporate sociai responsibility committee consisting  three  more directors, out  which  least one director must   independent director. This requirement appears   contradictory  the extent that the section applies  private companies. Also refer Chapter: Corporate Sociai Responsibilities Private companies would now  required  comply with the requirements for inter-corporate loans  weli  investments, which were hitherto not applicable. Also refer Chapter: Directors Meetings  the Board and its Powers - Loans and investments   company The provisions relating  the appointment  the managing director, whole-time director  manager are also applicable  private companies. Refer Chapter: Directors Appointment and remuneration  manageriai personnei - Introduction For certain other compliance requirements, refer  Chapter: Directors Generai - Additionai compliance requirements for private companies There   marked increase  the compliance requirements mandated for private companies under the 2o13 Act. While some  these wili   long way  increasing the accountability  private companies, there are also concerns   the need for increasing the complexities  private companies  which the public  large  not interested.  PwCOther areas Companies Act, 2o13 41Acceptance  deposits   pertinent  note that the requirements relating  acceptance  deposits are already quite stringent under the 1956 Act and the Rules made thereunder. The 2o13 Act further strengthens these provisions.  significant impact  the 2o13 Act  that only those public companies which meet the prescribed net worth  turnover criteria may accept deposits from persons other than its members. Other companies can accept deposits only from its members. The proposed provisions wili enhance the protection  the deposit holders. Companies wili have  incur additionai costs due  requirements related  credit rating, maintenance  additionai liquid funds, deposit insurance, etc. . Acceptance  deposits The 2o13 Act states, that only those companies which meet such net worth  turnover criteria  may  prescribed wili  eligible  accept deposits from individuals other than its members. Such companies wili also  required  obtain the rating including its net worth, liquidity and ability  pay its deposits  due date from  recognised credit rating agency which ensures adequate safety section    the 2o13 Act. Companies which  not meet the net worth  turnover criteria wili only  able  accept deposits from its members section    the 2o13 Act. Ali companies wili  required  comply with the prescribed conditions which includes issuance   circular  its members, obtaining credit rating, providing deposit insurance, maintaining deposit repayment reserve account, etc. section    the 2o13 Act. . Outstanding deposits The 2o13 Act states that deposits accepted before the 2o13 Act comes into force wili need   repaid within one year from the commencement  the 2o13 Act  when such payments are due, whichever  earlier section    the 2o13 Act. This  likely  create significant financiai impact  companies which have currently accepted deposits and wili not meet the eligibility criteria under the 2o13 Act. . Protection  depositors  amount equivalent   minimum   deposits maturing during the financiai year  weli  the following financiai year wili need   kept   separate bank account with  scheduled bank. The Companies Acceptance  Deposits Rules, 1975 currently requires that   deposits maturing during the financiai year needs   kept  bank  invested  specified securities section    the 2o13 Act. Additionally, the 2o13 Act also states that the deposit insurance  prescribed wili also  required   provided section    the 2o13 Act. Registered valuers The 2o13 Act has introduced  new concept  registered valuers who are required for providing valuation reports mandated under various sections. These include the following: Further issue  share-capitai section   the 2o13 Act Restriction  non-cash transactions involving directors section 192  the 2o13 Act Compromises, arrangements and amalgamations section 23o  the 2o13 Act Purchase  minority share holding section 236  the 2o13 Act Submission   report  the company liquidator section 281  the 2o13 Act Declaration  solvency  case  proposai  wind  voluntarily section 3o5  the 2o13 Act Power  the company liquidator  accept shares, etc. ,  consideration for the sale  property  the company section 319  the 2o13 Act The qualification, experience  weli  the process  registration   valuer have been prescribed  the draft rules section 247  the 2o13 Act.  PwCWinding- Chapter   the 2o13 Act consisting  sections 27o  365, deals with the provisions  winding-  companies. The 1956 Act prescribes three modes  winding-. This includes the following: -- the court --Under the supervision  the court --Voluntary  against the existing modes  winding-  prescribed  the 1956 Act, the 2o13 Act prescribes the following two modes: -- the Tribunai --Voluntary The 2o13 Act does not acknowledge the distinction between members voluntarily winding- and creditors voluntarily winding- . Additionally, the new grounds for winding-  Tribunai are  follows: --   situation when the company has acted against the interests  sovereignty and integrity  India, the security  the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, decency  morality -- Order has been made under Chapter XIX Revivai and Rehabilitation  Sick Companies. --  application has been made  the ROC  any other person authorised  the centrai government   notification under the 2o13 Act. -- The tribunai   the opinion that the affairs  the company have been conducted   fraudulent manner  the company was formed for fraudulent and unlawfui purposes  the persons concerned  the formation  management  its affairs have been found guilty  fraud, misfeasance  misconduct  connection therewith, and that   proper that the company  wound  -- The company has made  default  filing with the ROC, its financiai statements  annuai returns for immediately preceding five consecutive financiai years Dealing with fraud The 2o13 Act deals extensively  the issue  fraud section 447  the 2o13 Act and has for the first time defined fraud specifically : Fraud  relation  affairs   company  any body corporate, includes any act, omission, concealment  any fact  abuse  position committed  any person  any other person with the connivance  any manner, with intent  deceive,  gain undue advantage from,   injure the interests , the company  its shareholders  its creditors  any other person, whether  not there  any wrongfui gain  wrongfui loss The term, wrongfui gain means gain  unlawfui means  property  which the person gaining  not legally entitled and wrongfui loss means the loss  unlawfui means  property  which the person losing  legally entitled Explanation  section 447  the 2o13 Act. Further, the penalties  prescribed under this section are  follows: -- Imprisonment for  term  not less than six months, but which may extend   years -- Fine not less than the amount involved  the fraud, but which may extend  three times the amount involved  the fraud -- Also, where the fraud  question involves public interest, the term  imprisonment shali not  less than three years The provisions  this section have  significant impact and there are various areas across the 2o13 Act, which wili lead  person   liable under this section. Some  these areas are  follows: -- Where  person furnishes any false  incorrect particulars  any information  suppresses any materiai information  relation  incorporation   company filed with the ROC section   and   the 2o13 Act --  case  the formation  the company with charitable purpose, where   proved that the affairs  the company were conducted fraudulently - every officer  default section    the 2o13 Act -- Where  prospectus, issued, circulated  distributed includes any statement which  untrue  misleading  form  context  which   included  where any inclusion  omission  any matter  likely  mislead, every person who authorises the issue  such prospectus section   the 2o13 Act -- Fraudulently inducing persons  invest money section   2o13 Act -- Personation for acquisition, etc.  securities section   the 2o13 Act -- Where any depository  depository participant, has transferred shares with  intention  defraud  person section    the 2o13 Act -- Failure  repay the deposit   part thereof  any interest thereon, within the time limits  applicable, and where   proved that such deposits were accepted with intent  defraud the depositors  for any fraudulent purpose section   the 2o13 Act Companies Act, 2o13 -- Where the Tribunai  satisfied that the auditor   company has, whether directly  indirectly, acted   fraudulent manner  abetted  colluded  any fraud ,   relation , the company  its directors  officers section 14o   the 2o13 Act -- Where   proved that the partner  partners  the audit firm has  have acted   fraudulent manner  abetted  colluded  any fraud ,   relation   , the company  its directors  officers section 147   the 2o13 Act -- Penalty for furnishing false statement, mutilation, destruction  documents section 229  the 2o13 Act Shareholder democracy Acknowledging the concept  shareholder democracy, various provisions have been incorporated  the 2o13 Act. These provisions can  broadly classified  under: Shareholder rights  protection Speciai consideration  smali shareholders . Shareholder rights  protection Class action suits:  class action   legai form  lawsuit where  large group  individuals collectively bring  claim  court   which  particular class  defendants  being sued. The concept  collective lawsuit finds its roots  the , where   stili widely prevalent.  severai European countries, changes have been made recently  their civii law,  allow consumer organisations  bring claims  behalf  large groups  consumers. Acknowledging the need    par with globai standards, for class action lawsuit, the 2o13 Act has empowered shareholders associations  group  shareholders  take legai action  case  any fraudulent action  the part  company and  take part  investor protection activities and class action suits section 245  the 2o13 Act. Additionally,  response  the Standing Committee  recommendation  its Twenty First Report for ensuring protection  interests  minority shareholders and smali investors, the MCA suggested that during adjudication  class action suits, the Tribunai wili ensure that the interests  shareholders are protected and wrongdoers, including auditors and audit firms, are required  compensate the victims  suitable orders  Tribunai. Also,  stated  the 2o13 Act, the centrai government wili have power  prescribe class  classes  companies which shali not  permitted  allow use  proxies. The 2o13 Act also  have provisions  provide that  person shali have proxies for such number  members  such shares  may  prescribed. . Speciai consideration  smali shareholders The 2o13 Act acknowledges the existing rights  smali shareholders envisaged  section 252A  the 1956 Act under the following sections:  listed company may have one director elected  such smali shareholders  the manner and with the terms and conditions  may  prescribed. Here the term, smali shareholders means  shareholder holding shares  nominai value  not more than , ooo INR  such other sum  may  prescribed section 166  2o13 Act. Also refer  shareholder democracy, chapter  Other Areas The board  directors   company which consists  more than , ooo shareholders, debenture-holders, deposit-holders and any other security holders  any time during  financiai year shali constitute  stakeholders relationship committee consisting   chairperson who shali   non-executive director and such other members  may  decided  the board. Further, the section under sub-section six, recognises the concept  the stakeholders relationship committee which  required  consider and resolve the grievances  security holders  the company section 178  the 2o13 Act. Specific disclosure under the scheme  mergers  amalgamation regarding the effect  merger  minority shareholders    provided. Under various sections  the 2o13 Act, for example, variation  terms  contract  object  prospectus, the dissenting shareholders have been provided with  option  exit which act   protection  the interests  smali shareholders. The concept  class action suits, considering the best interests  the shareholders,   welcome provision. However, the fact that there are always possibilities  misuse cannot  ignored Additionally,   important  note that India, being  developing economy, may find  difficult  appreciate the concept  class action suits and implement  successfully.  PwCChapter Section Title   Short title, extent, commencement and application   Abridged prospectus   Alter  alteration   Appellate Tribunai   Articles   Associate company   Authorised  nominai capitai   Banking company   Board  directors  the board   Body corporate  corporation   Book and paper and book  paper   Branch office   Called- capitai   Charge   Chartered accountant   Chief executive officer   Chief financiai officer   Company   Company limited  guarantee   Company limited  shares   Company secretary  secretary   Cost accountant   except for sub-clause  Court   Debenture   Depository   Derivative   Director   Dividend   Document   Employees stock option   Expert   Financiai institution   Financiai statement   Free reserve   Globai depository receipt   Government company   Holding company   Independent director   Issued capitai   Key manageriai personnei   Listed company   Manager   Managing director12. Sections notified tili date and circulars  orders issued Companies Act, 2o13 45Chapter Section Title   Member   Memorandum   Net worth   Notification   Officer   Officer who   default   Officiai liquidator   Ordinary  speciai resolution   Paid- share capitai  share capitai paid-   Postai ballot   Prescribed   Previous company law   Private company   Promoter   Prospectus   Public company   Public financiai institution   Recognised stock exchange   Register  companies   Registrar   Related party   Relative   Remuneration   Schedule   Scheduled bank   Securities   Securities and exchange board   Share   Subscribed capitai   except the proviso and Expla - nation  Subsidiary company  subsidiary   Sweat equity shares   Totai voting power   Tribunai   Turnover   Unlimited company   Voting right   Whole-time director   Words and expressions used and not defined  this Act  PwCChapter Section Title   Subsidiary company not  hold shares  its holding company  Authentication  documents, proceedings and contracts  Execution  bills  exchange, etc. III  except    and   Public offer and private placement  Power  securities and exchange board  regulate the issue and transfer  securities, etc.  except   Document containing the offer  securities for sale   deemed prospectus  Public offer  securities    dematerialised form  Advertisement  prospectus  Shelf prospectus  Red herring prospectus  except   Issue  application forms for securities  Criminai liability for misstatements  prospectus  except    Civii liability for misstatements  prospectus  Punishment for fraudulently, inducing persons  invest money  Action  the affected persons  Punishment for personation for acquisition, etc. ,  securities  except   Allotment  securities  company  except   Securities   dealt with  stock exchanges   Nature  shares  debentures  Numbering  shares  Calls  shares  same class   made  uniform basis  Company  accept unpaid share capitai, although not called-  Payment  dividend  proportion  the amount paid-  Punishment for personation  the shareholder  Refusai  registration and appeai against refusai  Rectification  register  members  Publication  authorised, subscribed and paid- capitai  Unlimited company  provide for reserve share capitai  conversion into limited company  Transfer  certain sums  capitai redemption reserve account  except   Prohibition for buy-back  certain circumstances   Punishment for contravention VII  Power  close register  members  debenture holders  other security holders 1oo except 1oo  Calling  extraordinary generai meeting 1o2 Statement   annexed  notice 1o3 Quorum for meetings 1o4 Chairman  meetings 1o5 except the third and fourth proviso  1o5  and 1o5  Proxies 1o6 Restriction  voting rights 1o7 Voting  show  hands 111 Circulation  members resolution 112 Representation  President and governors  meetings 113 except 113   Representation  corporations  meeting  companies and  creditors 114 Ordinary and speciai resolutions 116 Resolutions passed  adjourned meeting Companies Act, 2o13 47Chapter Section Title VIII 127 Punishment for failure  distribute dividends  133 Centrai government  prescribe accounting standards  161 except 161  Appointment  additionai director, alternate director and nominee director 162 Appointment  directors   voted individually 163 Option  adopt principle  proportionai representation for appointment  directors XII 176 Defects  appointment  directors not  invalidate actions taken 18o Restrictions  powers  the board 181 Company  contribute  bona fide and charitable funds, etc. 182 Prohibitions and restrictions regarding politicai contributions 183 Power  the board and other persons  make contributions  the nationai defence fund, etc. 185 Loan  directors, etc. 192 Restriction  non-cash transactions involving directors 194 Prohibition  forward dealings  securities  company  director  key manageriai personnei 195 Prohibition  insider trading  securities XIII 2o2 Compensation for loss  office  managing  whole-time director  man - ager XXII 379 Application  the Act  foreign companies 382 Display  name, etc. ,  the foreign company 383 Service  the foreign company 386 except clause  Interpretation XXIII 394 Annuai reports  government companies XXV 4o5 Power  the centrai government  direct companies  furnish information  statistics XXVII 4o7 Definitions 4o8 Constitution  the Nationai Company Law Tribunai 4o9 Qualification  the President and members  the Tribunai 41o Constitution  the Appellate Tribunai 411 Qualifications  the chairperson and members  the Appellate Tribunai 412 Selection  members  the Tribunai and the Appellate Tribunai 413 Term  office  the President, chairperson and other members 414 Salary, allowances and other terms and conditions  service  the members XXVIII 439 Offences   non-cognisable. 443 Power  the centrai government  appoint company prosecutors 444 Appeai against acquittai 445 Compensation for accusation without reasonable cause 446 Application  fines XXIX 447 Punishment for fraud 448 Punishment for  false statement 449 Punishment for false evidence 45o Punishment where  specific penalty  punishment  provided 451 Punishment  case  repeated default 452 Punishment for wrongfui withholding  property  PwCChapter Section Title 453 Punishment for the improper use  limited  private limited 456 Protection  action taken  good faith 457 Non-disclosure  information  certain cases 458 Delegation  the centrai government  its powers and functions 459 Powers  the centrai government  Tribunai  accord approvai, etc. , subject  conditions and  prescribe fees  applications 46o Condonation  delay  certain cases 461 Annuai report  the centrai government 462 Power  exempt class  classes  companies from the provisions  this Act 463 Power  court  grant relief  certain cases 467 Power  centrai government  amend the Schedules 468 Powers  the centrai government  make rules relating  winding- 469 Power  the centrai government  make rules 47o Power  remove difficulties Companies Act, 2o13 49Circulars  orders issued clarifying the notified sections:  Generai Circular No15 2o13 dated  September 2o13: This provides clarifications  the implementation  sections  , 1o2, 133 and 18o. The clarifications given are  follows: Sub-section   section : The Registrar  Companies may register those memorandum and articles  association received tili  September 2o13  per the definition clause  the private company, under the Companies Act, 1956 without referring  the definition  private company under the said Act. Section 1o2: Ali companies which have issued notices  the generai meeting   after  September 2o13, the statement   annexed  the notice shali comply with additionai requirements  prescribed  section 1o2  the said Act. Section 133: Tili the standards  accounting  any addendum thereto are prescribed  the centrai government  consultation and recommendation  the Nationai Financiai Reporting Authority, the existing accounting standards notified under the Companies Act, 1956 shali continue  apply. Section 18o:  respect  requirements  speciai resolution under section 18o  the said Act  against the ordinary resolution required  the Companies Act, 1956,   notice for any such generai meeting was issued prior   September 2o13, then such resolution may  passed  accordance with the requirement  the Companies Act, 1956.  The generai circular No16 2o13 dated  September 2o13: This clarifies that with effect from  September 2o13, the relevant provisions  the Companies Act, 1956, which correspond  the provisions   sections  the Companies Act, 2o13, brought into force   September. 2o13, cease  have effect from that date.  The generai circular   2o13 dated  November 2o13: This clarifies that section 372A  the 1956 Act continues  remain  force tili section 186  notified.  The Companies Removai  Difficulties Order, 2o13: The MCA has issued the Companies Removai  Difficulties Order, 2o13 the Order, which seeks  remove the difficulty which arises  account  notifying the applicability  sections ,  and   the 2o13 Act without constituting the Nationai Company Law Tribunai  per Chapter XXVII  the 2o13 Act. Consequently, this order clarifies that untii  date  notified  the centrai government under sub-section   section 434  the Companies Act, 2o13   2o13 for transfer  ali matters, proceedings  cases  the Tribunai constituted under Chapter XXVII  the said Act, the Board  Company Law Administration shali exercise the powers  the Tribunai under sections ,  and section   pursuance  the second proviso  sub-section   section 465  the said Act. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc  PwCpwc.  Data Classification:   asked  the respective team . . DCo: For internai use only This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  XXX - Month 2o13 NameOfTheReport. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India