Title: pwc_breaking-dawn-on-the-horizon-destination-india-2013
Date Published: 2013-11-12 16:19:36+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_breaking-dawn-on-the-horizon-destination-india-2013.pdf
Word Count: 16357
Sentence Count: 905
Average Sentence Length: 27.83

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
tax: 292
india: 242
company: 173
foreign: 161
indian: 142
wili: 118
capitai: 109
fdi: 100
companies: 99
services: 89
permitted: 84
subject: 83
income: 82
investment: 81
approvai: 79
goods: 76
also: 74
business: 74
shares: 74
route: 72

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Breaking Dawn  the Horizon Destination India 2o13 www. pwc.  Overview  Tax Regulatory framework  India: October 2o13 Introduction  Foreign investment  India  Funding Options  India p11 Significant Exchange Controi Regulations p14 Direct Taxation  India p16 Internationai assignments  India p22 Indirect Taxation  India p25 Mergers Acquisition p28 Transfer Pricing  India p31  PwCIntroductionChapter  India has seen moderation  its growth rate from its previous peaks, but  stili compares favourably with many other economies. The IMF forecasts that India  GDP growth rate wili  behind China  2o14, but stili better than the collective growth rate  emerging and developing economies and advanced economies respectively. The Prime Minister  Economic Advisory Committee also believes that India wili register  growth rate  .   2o13-. The economy, however,  facing  few challenges  present. One among them   maintain  healthy current account deficit. Exports have slowed with dampening demand  globai markets, while import bills kept their momentum going, leading   trade deficit. The government has pulled the reforms trigger  the economy  moving towards reducing subsides  petroleum and diesei, attracting FDI  retaii, aviation and broadcasting, passing the new Companies Act  the Parliament and setting  the Cabinet Committee  Investment, amongst the slew  measures this year. Source: World  2o5o The BRICS and beyond: prospects, challenges and opportunities, January 2o13 Source: Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion, Government  India Both these countries are popular jurisdiction for establishing  holding company  route FDI into India. Source: PwC Analysis, NCAER, CMI Purchasing Power Parity PPP . World  2o5o The BRICS and beyond: prospects, challenges and opportunities, January 2o132. Profitable growth strategies for the Globai Emerging Middle Lear ning from the Next  Billion markets, PwC India, January 2o12Top investing countries and sectors FDI equity inflows India has gained importance   globai levei 2o3o 2o5o Country GDP  PPP 2o11  USD Country Projected GDP  PPP 2o11  USD China , 634 China , 856  , 376  , 998 India , 716 India , 7o4 Japan , 842 Brazii , 825 Russia , 3o8 Japan , o65 Brazii , 685 Russia , o13 Germany , 118 Mexico , 4o9 Mexico , 662 Indonesia , 346  , 499 Germany , 822 France , 427 France , 714 Country Cumulative inflows Aprii 2ooo June 2o13, Million USD Sectors Projected GDP  PPP 2o11  USD Mauritius , 765 Services sector , 18o Singapore , 312 Construction development , 248  , 599 Telecommunications , 866 Japan , 75o Computer software and hardware , 738 USA , 436 Drugs and pharmaceuticals11, 318 Netherlands , 373 Chemicals , 993 Cyprus , 993 Automobile , 81o Germany , 99o Power , 954 France , 672 Metallurgicai , 621 UAE , 472 Hotei and tourism , 732India' income distribution Millions Household income year INR day per capita2o1o 2o21 Projection 85o, ooo Upper middle   , 18o 3oo, ooo - 85o, oooMiddle  -   -  , 248 15o, ooo - 3oo, oooEmerging middle .  -  .  -  , 866 15o, ooo Low .  .  , 738 The long term prospects  India are strong.  PwC analysis1 shows that India  not only one  the fastest growing economies  the world, but also the third largest  purchasing power parity PPP terms. The report further projects that India  going  maintain its third position  PPP terms through 2o5o. India  emerging middle,  segment  population below the middle class, provides  large untapped market.  India, about 47o million people were  the Emerging Middle class  2o1o and they are expected  grow  57o million people  2o21. This emerging middle class market  India  expected  constitute  trillion dollar market Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 3Foreign investment  IndiaChapter  Foreign direct investment   India The Indian government had embarked  liberalising the regulatory framework, particularly foreign investment , through the Statement  Industriai Policy  1991. Since then, the regulatory environment  terms  foreign investment has been consistently eased  make  investor-friendly. Under the current framework, FDI  permitted  ali categories  investors and  ali sectors except the following: Activities and sectors not open  private sector investment . . Atomic energy and Railway Transport except mass rapid transport systems MRTSs Lotteries, gambling and betting Agriculture excluding floriculture, horticulture, apiculture, seed development, animai husbandry, pisciculture, aquaculture and cultivation  vegetables, mushrooms, etc. under controlled conditions and services related  agro and allied sectors Plantations excluding tea plantations Reai estate business except construction development projects  construction  farmhouses Chit funds, nidhi companies  trading  transferable development rights Manufacturing  cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, tobacco and tobacco substitutes FIs can  made  other sectors under the following: Approvai route, . .  the government through the Foreign Investment Promotion Board FIPB under the Ministry  Finance  Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion DIPP under the Ministry  Commerce and Industry  both Automatic route, . .  prior approvals from regulatory authorities but only post facto intimations  RBI through Authorized Bankers Approvai route  prior approvai from the FIPB  the DIPP  required  cases   where the project does not qualify for the automatic route. The following cases wili fali under this category: Specified sectors which require FIPB approvai for FDI  for FDI beyond  prescribed sectorai cap Refer page , , , and  Issue  shares for consideration other than cash . . issue  shares against import  capitai goods machinery equipment and pre-operative pre-incorporation expenses subject  compliance with certain stated conditions except for capitalisation   externai commerciai borrowing ECB due for repayment and interest  such  ECB,  weli  technicai knowhow fee  royalties due for payment Investments  citizens and companies  Bangladesh  Pakistan Investments  warrants and partly paid shares Investment   Indian company engaged only  downstream investment activities for holding purposes  which does not have any operations  any downstream investments. Additionally,  company which fulfils the criteria prescribed under the core investment companies CICs guidelines issued  the RBI wili have  comply with the norms prescribed therein The decision  the FIPB  DIPP  normally conveyed within four  six weeks from the date  submission   application.  proposai for foreign investment  decided   case--case basis  the merits  the case and according  the prescribed sectorai policy. Generally, preference  given  projects  high-priority industries and the infrastructure sector, those with export potentiai, large-scale employment opportunities, links with the agro sector, sociai relevance,  those relating  the infusion  capitai and induction  technology. Foreign investment proposals under the FIPB route involving  totai foreign equity inflow  more than  billion INR must  placed before the Cabinet Committee  Externai Affairs CCEA for further consideration. Where  entity has  earlier FIPB  CCEA approvai for  activity sector  sectorai caps, additionai foreign investment  such  entity does not require prior approvai from the FIPB  the CCEA, where subsequent  the earlier approvai: either the activity  the sector, had been placed under the automatic route;  sectorai caps had been removed  increased provided that such additionai investment along with the originai investment  within the current sectorai caps Automatic route Generally, except  the cases mentioned above, ali other cases  foreign investment fali under the automatic route and  not require prior approvai  the FIPB  DIPP. Computation  FDI The Indian government had issued guidelines  calculate totai FDI   Indian company where sectorai caps apply.  per this policy, the totai FDI   Indian company wili comprise the following: Direct investment   foreign investor Indirect Foreign Investments IFIs through  Indian company owned  controlled  non-residents. Here owned means more than  shareholding and controi means right  appoint  majority  the directors   controi the management  policy decisions including  virtue  their shareholding  management rights  shareholders agreements  voting agreements. Further, for the computation  IFI,  wili include ali types  investments, . . , FDI, investment  FIIs holding    March, NRIs, ADRs, GDRs, foreign currency convertible bonds FCCBs, convertible preference shares and convertible currency debentures regardless  whether the said investments have been made under Schedule , ,     FEMA Transfer  Issue  Security  Persons Resident Outside India Regulations.  PwCBroadly, the principle emerging under this policy aspect  that  case  Indian company  owned and controlled beneficially  resident Indian citizens RICs, any downstream investment made wili  considered  domestic investment and not counted towards foreign investment caps. Further, any downstream investments made   Indian company owned  controlled  non-residents would also  required  comply with sectorai caps and conditionalities.  this regard, RBI has issued circular incorporating the downstream investment policy guidelines issued  DIPP  2oo9. Further,  statutory auditor would need  certify whether downstream investment   compliance with the FDI Policy and FEMA provisions. Foreign venture capitai permitted  acquire securities under private arrangement Foreign Venture Capitai Investors FVCIs can invest  eligible securities equity, equity linked instruments, debt, debt instruments, debentures   IVCU  VCF, units  schemes  funds set    VCF  private arrangement  purchase from  third party subject  compliance with certain conditions. Foreign investment  qualified foreign investors Qualified foreign investors QFIs are non- resident investors other than SEBI-registered FIIs and SEBI-registered FVCIs who meet the KYC requirements  SEBI. QFIs from FATF compliant jurisdictions and resident   country that   signatory  IOSCO  MoU   signatory   bilaterai MoU with SEBI have been permitted  invest  equity shares  listed Indian companies  equity shares  Indian companies offered  the public  India through SEBI-registered depository participants DPs  SEBI-registered brokers within  individuai cap   and   aggregate  the paid- capitai  listed companies  both. Further, QFIs can also purchase rupee denominated units  equity schemes  domestic mutuai funds MFs   repatriation basis and eligible corporate debt instruments, viz. listed non-convertible debentures NCDs, listed bonds  Indian companies, listed units   debt schemes and   listed corporate bonds directly from the issuer  through  registered stockbroker   recognised stock exchange  India. QFIs are also permitted  acquire non-convertible debentures  bonds issued  NBFCs categorised  infrastructure finance companies IFCs. FDI  limited liability partnerships FDI   1oo  permitted with prior government approvai  limited liability partnerships engaged  sectors  activities currently eligible for 1oo FDI under the automatic route. Such sectors activities should not have any sectorai  other FDI-linked conditions. Some  the conditions, subject  which FDI  LLP would  permitted, are  follows: Only cash contribution  permissible for FDI  LLPs. LLPs with FDI are not allowed  make downstream investments. LLP cannot raise ECB. FIIs and FVCIs cannot invest  LLPs. Investment through share acquisition Non resident investors can acquire shares   existing Indian company subject  compliance with sectorai conditions. Stock acquisition  permitted after  resolution  this effect has been passed  the board  directors  the company whose shares are being acquired. The acquisition wili need  comply with valuation guidelines prescribed  RBI  SEBI from time  time. Prior FIPB approvai  required  ali cases where either the controi  ownership  the Indian company, engaged   sector where FDI caps apply,  transferred   acquired   non- resident entity. Acquisition  way  share swap  also permitted with prior FIPB approvai and  subject  valuation guidelines. Prior approvai  the RBI   longer required for the following cases  share acquisitions: Acquisition  existing equity  residents from non-residents where the share price falls outside the prescribed valuation norms but complies with the pricing prescribed under SEBI regulations  guidelines Acquisition  equity  non-residents from residents under the following cases: Where the requisite approvai  the FIPB has been obtained Where prescribed pricing guidelines are not met but comply with SEBI pricing guidelines Where the investee company   the financiai services sector Valuation norms Issue  shares  non-residents  transfers from resident  non-residents  subject  valuation guidelines  set out below:  case  transfer  shares from resident  non-resident, the consideration cannot  less than the amount determined  per discounted cash flow method  case  unlisted shares. However,  shares are listed, then the consideration price cannot  less than the price  which preferentiai allotment  shares can  made under SEBI guidelines.  relation   transfer  shares   Indian company listed  unlisted from  non-resident  resident, the price cannot exceed the above mentioned price Where non-residents including NRIs are making investments   Indian company,  way  subscription  its Memorandum  Association, such investments may  made  face value subject  their eligibility  invest under the FDI scheme.  relation   transfer  shares   Indian company listed  unlisted from  non-resident  resident, the price may not  more than the minimum price  which the transfer  shares can  made. Investment  foreign institutionai investors FIIs Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13  registered FII may, through the SEBI, apply  the RBI for permission  purchase the shares and convertible debentures   Indian company under the portfolio investment scheme. FIIs are permitted  the RBI  purchase the shares  convertible debentures   Indian company through registered brokers  recognised stock exchanges  India. They are also permitted  purchase the shares  convertible debentures   Indian company through private placement  arrangement. The totai holding  each FII and SEBI approved sub-account  FII cannot exceed   the totai paid- equity capitai    the paid- value  each series  convertible debentures issued   Indian company. Further, the totai holdings  ali FIIs  sub-accounts  FIIs added together cannot exceed   the paid- equity capitai  the paid- value  each series  convertible debentures. The limit   may  increased  the specified sectorai cap  statutory ceiling,  applicable,  the concerned Indian company  passing  board  directors resolution, followed  the permission  the shareholders through  speciai resolution  that effect and immediate intimation  the RBI. FIIs can now invest  the primary issues  NCDs  bonds only  their listing  committed   done within  days  such  investment. FIIs can also subscribe  unlisted bonds  NCDs  case the issuing company   infrastructure company. FDI  major sectors  India India ranks among the most attractive destinations for FDI  the world. Indian markets have the potentiai and offer prospects  higher profitability and  favourable regulatory regime  attract investors.  summary  the FDI  key sectors   follows: Agriculture and allied activities FDI  NRI investment  not permitted  agriculture and allied activities, except under the following circumstances: FDI   1oo under automatic route  permitted  floriculture, horticulture, development and production  seeds and planting materiai, animai husbandry, pisciculture, aquaculture, cultivation  vegetables and mushrooms under controlled conditions and services related  agro and allied sectors. Certain conditions apply for companies dealing with development  transgenic seeds and vegetables  tea sector including tea plantations, FDI   1oo  permitted under the approvai route FDI   1oo  permitted under automatic route for coffee and rubber processing and warehousing Asset reconstruction companies ARC Foreign investment  way  FDI and FII  permitted   1oo upto  under automatic route and beyond  with prior FIPB approvai   ARC registered with the RBI. While FIIs can invest  ARCs, totai shareholding   individuai FII shali not exceed   the paid- capitai. Further, SEBI registered FIIs can invest  security receipts SRs issued  RBI registered ARCs     each tranche  scheme  SRs. Ali investments  ARCs wili  subject  provisions  section     Securitisation and Reconstruction  Financiai Assets and Enforcement  Security Interest Act, 2oo2 SARFAESI. Banking Public sector banks: FDI and portfolio investment  restricted   with  prior FIPB approvai Private sector banks: FDI    allowed    under the automatic route, and beyond  and    under the FIPB approvai route. Voting rights per shareholder are restricted  . Please note that within the permissible FDI ceiling, there are separate limits for FII  NRI investment under the portfolio investment scheme.  foreign bank may operate  India only through one  the following three channels:  branch  branches  wholly-owned subsidiary  subsidiary with  aggregate   maximum  Broadcasting Teleports setting-  uplinking hubs  teleports, direct- -home, cable networks Multi System Operators MSOs operating   nationai, state  district levei and undertaking upgradation  networks towards digitalisation and addressability, mobile  and headend--the-sky HITS broadcasting services: FDI  permitted       under automatic route and beyond  and    under approvai route. Cable network other MSOs not undertaking upgradation  networks towards digitalisation and addressability and locai cable operators LCOs:   permitted    under the automatic route. Terrestriai broadcasting   radio: FDI  permitted    under the approvai route. Uplinking  channels: FDI     permitted under the approvai route for the uplinking   news and current affairs  channei. 1oo FDI  permitted under the approvai route for uplinking  non-news  current affairs  channei. Downlinking   channels: 1oo FDI  permitted with prior Government approvai   specified above,  addition  FDI, includes FII, NRI, FCCBs, ADRs, GDRs and convertible preference shares held  foreign entities. FDI  broadcasting sector wili also  subject  compliance with terms and conditions prescribed  the Ministry  Information and Broadcasting.  addition,  these sub-sectors where FDI  limited  , the Indian company wili need  comply with the condition that the largest Indian shareholder wili hold  least   the share capitai  the company. Civii aviation and airports FDI     permitted for scheduled air transport services and domestic scheduled passenger airlines under the automatic route. NRI investment  permitted   1oo under the automatic route. For non-scheduled air transport services, non-scheduled airlines and cargo airlines, FDI  permitted       PwC49 under the automatic route and beyond that with FIPB approvai. NRI investment  permitted   1oo under the automatic route. Foreign airlines have been permitted  invest  the capitai  Indian companies operating scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services  the limit    their paid- capitai, subject  specified conditions. 1oo FDI  permitted under the automatic route for maintenance and repair organisations, flying training institutes and technicai training institutions. FDI     permitted for ground-handling services subject  sectorai regulations and security clearances. FDI     permitted under the automatic route and between  and  under the approvai route. However, NRI investment upto 1oo  permitted under the automatic route. FDI   1oo  permitted under the automatic route for helicopter and sea-plane services. Foreign airlines can participate  the equity  companies operating cargo airlines, helicopter services and seaplane services. 1oo FDI  permitted under the automatic route for greenfield investments  airports. With respect  existing airports, FDI   1oo  permitted,    under the automatic route and   1oo with prior FIPB approvai. Coai and lignite FDI  permitted   1oo under the automatic route  coai and lignite mining for the captive consumption  power projects, iron and steei, cement units and other eligible activities, subject  the provisions  the Coai Mines Nationalisation Act, 1973  company setting  coai processing plants FDI   1oo  permitted under the automatic route subject  the condition that  wili not conduct coai mining and wili supply the washed  sized coai  parties supplying raw coai  coai processing plants, instead  selling   the open market. Commodity exchanges Composite foreign investment CFI FDI plus FII     permitted with prior FIPB approvai. However, FIIs are permitted  invest    without government approvai and restricted  secondary market purchases. FDI investment  capped  .  foreign investor  entity including those acting  concert may hold more than  equity. The Union Cabinet has approved the proposai  permit   this sector under the automatic route However,  officiai press note implementing the decision  awaited. Credit information companies CFI  credit information companies  permitted   , subject  the following conditions: Prior approvai  the Indian government and regulatory clearance from the RBI Investment  registered FIIs permitted    within the overali limit   only  listed credit information companies Foreign investment subject  the Credit Information Companies Regulation Act, 2oo5 The Union Cabinet has approved the proposai  permit  FDI FII     this sector under the automatic route Courier services FDI   1oo  permitted under the automatic route  companies undertaking courier business. Defence FDI  this sector  permitted    subject  prior FIPB approvai and compliance with security and licensing requirements and guidelines issued  the Ministry  Defence. However, proposals beyond  may  considered  case--case basis  the Cabinet Committee  Security. One  the basis for approvai for such cases wili   see  the proposai brings  state  the art and technology. These are likely  result  increased access  modern and state--the-art technology  the country. Additionally, the Indian company wili need  comply with the condition that the largest Indian shareholder wili hold  least   its share capitai. According  the guidelines for the production  arms and ammunition, the management  the applicant company  partnership should   Indian hands, and the majority  the board  weli  the chief executive should   resident Indian. Further, there   three-year lock- period for the transfer  equity from one foreign investor  another. Insurance FDI  the insurance sector  permitted    under the automatic route, subject  obtaining  licence from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority IRDA. Micro and smali enterprises MSEs FDI   MSE for the manufacture  items reserved under the smali-scale sector  permitted, subject  compliance with the applicable sectorai policy. However, any industriai undertaking which  not  MSE and  engaged  manufacturing items reserved for the MSE sector, wili require FIPB approvai when   more than . Such  undertaking wili also require  industriai licence under the Industries Development and Regulation Act, 1951. This licence prescribes the export   minimum    the new  additionai annuai production  the MSE reserved items   achieved within  maximum period  three years. Mining FDI  allowed   1oo under the automatic route for activities such  the exploration and mining  metals and non-metai ores, including gold and silver, minerals, diamonds Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 7and precious stones. FDI   1oo  permitted with prior government approvai for the mining and minerai separation  titanium-bearing minerals and ores, its value addition and integrated activities.   subject  sectorai regulations and the conditions  the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act, 1957. Non-banking financiai services 1oo FDI  only allowed  the following  activities under the automatic route subject  the minimum capitalisation norms indicated below: Merchant banking Underwriting Portfolio management services Investment advisory services Financiai consultancy Stock broking Asset management Venture capitai Custodian services Factoring Credit rating agencies Leasing and finance this wili cover only finance lease Housing finance Forex broking Credit card business Moneychanging business Micro credit Rurai creditMinimum capitalisation norms foreign equity: Fund-based activities For Non-Banking Financiai Companies NBFCs, investment would  subject  following the minimum capitalisation norms.  .  million for foreign capitai      brought upfront   million for foreign capitai more than  and      brought upfront   million for foreign capitai more than  out  which  .  million   brought upfront and the balance   months Minimum capitalisation norms foreign equity: Non-fund- based activities For non- banking financiai companies NBFCS the minimum capitalisation norm has been fixed  .  million USD. The prescribed minimum capitai  required   brought upfront. The following activities are classified  non-fund-based activities: Investment advisory services Financiai consultancy Forex broking Money changing Credit rating  non-fund based NBFC  prohibited from setting  subsidiary for any other activity and neither can  participate  the equity   NBFC holding  operating company. Petroleum Other than refining 1oo FDI  permitted under the automatic route  the following, subject  the existing policy and regulatory framework  the petroleum sector: Exploration activities  oii and naturai gas fields Infrastructure related  marketing  petroleum products and naturai gas Petroleum products and naturai gas marketing Petroleum product and naturai gas pipelines LNG -gasification infrastructure Market studies and formulation  the petroleum sector Refining  the case  PSUs, FDI  permitted    maximum   with automatic route.  the case  private Indian companies, FDI   1oo  permitted under the automatic route.  PwCPower exchange FDI     permissible  power exchange under the automatic route with FDI    and FII investment   . FII investment  restricted  the secondary market.  non-resident investor  entity including the persons acting  concert can hold more than   the equity. Print media Publication  newspapers, periodicals and Indian editions  foreign magazines  news and current affairs: Foreign investment including FDI, NRI, PIO and FII investment,  permitted    with prior FIPB approvai. Publishing and printing  scientific and technicai magazines, speciality journals and periodicals: FDI  permitted   1oo with prior FIPB approvai. Publication  facsimile editions  foreign newspapers: FDI   1oo with prior FIPB approvai  permitted, provided    the owner  the originai newspapers whose facsimile edition  proposed   published  India. These sub-sectors need  comply with terms and conditions  may  prescribed  the Ministry  Information and Broadcasting.  addition,  the above sub-sectors where FDI  limited  , the Indian company needs  comply with the single largest Indian shareholder condition. Construction development projects FDI   1oo under the automatic route  permitted  the following: Construction-development projects including but not restricted  housing, commerciai premises, resorts, educationai institutions, recreationai facilities, city and regionai levei infrastructure, and townships subject  certain conditions: minimum area   developed minimum capitalisation   million USD for  wholly-owned subsidiary and  million USD for   with  Indian partner originai investment . . the entire amount brought   FDI with  minimum three-year lock- from the date  receipt  each FDI installment  from the date  completion  minimum capitalisation, whichever  later development   least   each project must  completed within  years  obtaining ali statutory clearances Investment  NRIs  not subject  the conditions applicable  the case  construction development projects. Investment  SEZs, hotels, hospitals, industriai parks satisfying prescribed conditions, the education sector and old-age homes  also exempt from the above requirement. Industriai parks FDI   1oo  permitted under the automatic route subject  the fulfillment  prescribed conditions. Industriai activity has been defined  mean manufacturing; electricity; gas and water supply; post and telecommunications; software publishing, consultancy and supply; data processing, database activities and distribution  electronic content; other computer related activities; basic and applied    bio-technology, pharmaceuticai sciences and life sciences, naturai sciences and engineering; business and management consultancy activities; and architecturai, engineering and other technicai activities. Further, the conditions applicable  construction development activities would not  applicable provided the following conditions are complied with: Industriai park comprises   least  units and  single unit occupies more than   allocable area  least   the totai allocable area  allocated  industriai activity Satellites: establishment and operations FDI     permitted with prior FIPB approvai subject  sectorai guidelines  the Department  Space  the Indian Space Research Organisation ISRO. Security agencies  the private sector FDI     permitted under approvai route. Stock exchanges, depositories, clearing corporations Foreign investment    FDI cap   and FII cap    permitted under automatic route. FIIs are allowed only through purchases  the secondary market. Pharmaceuticals 1oo FDI  permitted  existing pharmaceuticai companies with prior FIPB approvai. With respect  the greenfield investments, 1oo FDI  permitted under the automatic route. Telecommunications FDI   1oo  permitted. FDI upto   under automatic route, and beyond    prior FIPB approvai  the telecom services including Telecom infrastructure Providers Category-, viz. Basic, Cellular, United Access Services, Unified License Access services, Unified License, Nationai Internationai Long Distance, Commerciai -Sat, Public Mobile Radio Trunked services, Globai Mobile Personai Communications Services, Ali types  ISP licenses, Voice Maii Audiotex UMS, Resale  IPLC, Mobile Number Portability services, Infrastructure Provider Category  providing dark fibre, right  way, duct space, tower except other Service Providers  subject  observance  licensing and security conditions  licensee  weli  investors  notified  the Department  Telecommunication from time  time. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 9Trading 1oo FDI  permitted under the automatic route for trading companies engaged  the following activities: Cash-and-carry wholesale trading and wholesale trading subject  operationai guidelines Cash-and-carry wholesale trading means sale  goods  merchandise  retailers, industriai, commerciai, institutionai  other professionai business users   other wholesalers and related subordinated service providers. Operationai guidelines for wholesale trading Sales made  the wholesaler qualify  wholesale trading where the sales are made  the following eligible customers except  case  sales  the government: Entities holding sales tax  value added tax VAT registration, service tax  excise duty registration Entities holding trade licences under applicable locai shops and establishment laws Entities holding permits, licences, etc. for undertaking retaii trade from government authorities and locai self government bodies Institutions with certificates  incorporation  registration   society  registration  public trust for their own consumption Wholesale trading  group companies  companies among the same group should not exceed   the totai turnover  the wholesale venture. The term group means two  more enterprises which, directly  indirectly, are  the position : Exercise ,  more voting rights  the other enterprise Appoint more than   its members  the board  directors  the other enterprise Fuli records indicating details such  name  entity, its licence, registration, permit number, amount  sale, etc should  maintained   daily basis These companies can engage only  B2B -commerce and not  retaii trading, implying that the existing restrictions  FDI  domestic trading are applicable  -commerce  weli Single brand retaii trading 1oo FDI  permitted with FIPB approvai for single-brand product retailing with FDI     this sector under the automatic route and beyond  with prior FIPB approvai, subject  the following conditions: Products   sold should    single brand only Products should  sold under the same brand internationally Single-brand product retailing covers only products branded during manufacturing  non-resident entity  entities whether owner  the brand  otherwise shali  permitted  undertake Single Brand product retaii trading  the country for the specific brand, directly  through  legally tenable agreement with the brand owner for undertaking single brand product retaii trading The onus for ensuring compliance with this condition wili rest with the Indian entity carrying out single brand product retaii trading  India. The investing entity shali provide evidence  this effect  the time  seeking approvai, including  copy  the licensing franchise sub-license agreement, specifically indicating compliance with the above condition. The requisite evidence should  filed with the RBI for the automatic route and SIA FIPB for cases involving approvai. Where FDI  proposed   beyond , mandatory sourcing   least   the value  products sold wili have   done from India, preferably from micro, smali and medium enterprises-MSMES, village and cottage industries, artisans and craftsmen Multi brand retaii trading  FDI  permitted with prior FIPB approvai for multi brand retaii trading, subject  following conditions: Fresh agriculturai produce including fruits, vegetables, flowers, grains, pulses, fresh poultry, fishery and meat products, may  unbranded Minimum capitalisation  1oo million USD  the foreign investor. Mandatory investment  backend infrastructure-  least   totai FDI brought  the first tranche   1oo million shali  invested  backend infrastructure within three years. Subsequent investment  backend infrastructure can  made depending upon business requirement  least   the value  procurement  manufactured  processed products purchased shali  sourced from Indian micro, smali and medium enterprises which have  totai investment  plant and machinery not exceeding  million USD. The smali industry status shali only  seen  the time  first engagement with the retailer Retaii sales outlets may  set  only  cities with  population  more than  million  per 2o11 census  any other cities  per the decision  the respective State Governments and may also cover  area   kms around the municipai  urban agglomeration limits  such cities Retaii trading,  any form,  means  -commerce, would not  permissible, for companies with FDI, engaged  the activity  MBRT While the above policy has been approved  the centrai government, the state governments  union territories are given the right  take their own decisions  regard  implementation  the above policy  PwCStates that have allowed multi brand retaii are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Delhi, Haryana, Himachai Pradesh, Jammu Kashmir, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Manipur, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Daman Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli union territories. Entry options  foreign company looking  set  operations  India can consider the following options: Operating   Indian company Wholly-owned subsidiary company  foreign company can set   wholly owned subsidiary company  India  carry out its activities. Such  subsidiary  treated   Indian resident and  Indian company for ali Indian regulations including income tax, Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Companies Act, despite being 1oo foreign-owned.  least two members, for  private limited company, and seven members, for  public limited company, are mandatory. Activities  such  company need  comply with the provisions  the FDI policy. Joint venture with  Indian partner equity participation Although  wholly owned subsidiary has proven   the preferred option, foreign companies have also begun operations  India  forming strategic alliances with Indian partners. The trend   choose  partner  the same area  activity  who brings synergy  the foreign investor  plans for India. Sometimes joint ventures are also necessitated due  restrictions  foreign ownership  certain sectors. The  guidelines for investment   Indian company have already been discussed above. Limited liability partnership LLP LLP   new form  business structure  India.  combines the advantages   company, such  being  separate legai entity having perpetuai succession, with the benefits  organisationai flexibility associated with  partnership.  least two partners are required  form  LLP and they have limited liability.  LLP, with less compliance levels  comparatively easier  manage than  company form  organisation. Further,  LLP  not subject  mandatory requirements applicable   company with regard  provision  depreciation and transfer  reserves prior  distribution  profits though Companies Act 2o13 makes  voluntary for  company  transfer  reserves prior  distribution  profits, this would  applicable once  gets notified.  mentioned earlier, the FDI policy for LLPs has been notified making this  possible viable entity form for Indian business operations  foreign investors. The operationai guidelines with respect  compliances   undertaken with respect  FDI   LLP are likely   notified soon  the RBI. Operating   foreign company Liaison office Setting   liaison  representative office   common practice for foreign companies seeking  enter the Indian market. The role  these offices  limited  collecting information about the market and providing information about the company and its products  prospective Indian customers. These offices act  listening and transmission posts and provide information between the foreign company and its Indian customers.  liaison office  not allowed  undertake anything other than liaison activities  India and cannot, therefore, earn any income  India, under the terms  approvai granted  the RBI. Additionally, one would need registration with Registrar  companies and reporting  details  Liaison office  required with Director Generai  Police under whose jurisdiction the   established. Project office Foreign companies planning  execute specific projects  India can set  temporary project and site offices here for this purpose. The RBI has granted generai permission   foreign entity for setting   project office  India, subject  the fulfillment  conditions. The foreign entity needs only  provide  report  the jurisdictionai regionai office  the RBI giving the particulars  the project  contract. Additionally, one would need  report the details  project office with Director Generai  Police under whose jurisdiction the   established. Branch office Foreign companies engaged  manufacturing and trading activities abroad can set  branch offices  India for the following purposes, with the prior approvai  the RBI: Export and import  goods Professionai  consultancy services Research work  which the parent company  engaged  promote technicai  financiai collaboration between Indian companies and the parent company Representing the parent company  India and acting   buying  selling agent  India  and software development services  India Technicai support for products supplied  the parent  group companies Acting   foreign airline  shipping company  generai, manufacturing activity cannot  undertaken through  branch office. However, foreign companies can establish  branch office  unit for manufacturing   SEZ subject  the fulfillment  certain conditions. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 11A foreign company which sets   subsidiary  India can fund its Indian subsidiary through the channels mentioned below: Equity capitai Equity shares refer  the common stock   company. Equity capitai comprises securities representing the equity ownership   company, providing voting rights, and entitling the holder   share  the company  success through dividends and  capitai appreciation.  the event  liquidation, common stockholders have rights   company  assets only after bondholders, other debt holders, and preferred stockholders have been satisfied. The issue  equity shares   Indian company   foreign company must comply with the sectorai caps  stated  the FDI policy  the Government  India. Transfer  reserve rules Corporate laws  India provide for  mandatory transfer  distributable profits  free reserves  the Indian company  the event   dividend declaration.  the event that the Indian company declares dividends  excess    the paid- capitai,  minimum    distributable profits wili need   transferred  statutory free reserves though Companies Act 2o13 makes  voluntary for  company  transfer  reserves prior  distribution  profits, this would  applicable once the Act comes  fuli force. Amounts transferred  statutory reserves cannot  ploughed back into the business  the company. These can  distributed  equity shareholders only  liquidation   the case  inadequate profits under the prescribed conditions. Repatriation  capitai Equity funds can  repatriated only  liquidation  transfer  shares. Limited buy-back provisions are available under corporate laws. Capitai reduction can  undertaken  certain circumstances with court approvai. Sectors such  defence and construction and development  reai estate are subject   minimum lock- period before the capitai can  repatriated. Externai commerciai borrowings ECBs Indian companies other than financiai intermediaries are allowed  raise ECBs from any  the internationally recognised sources such  banks, financiai institutions, capitai markets, export credit agencies, suppliers  equipment, foreign collaborators and foreign equity holders. ECBs can  raised from foreign equity holders holding the prescribed minimum levei  equity  the Indian borrower company: ECB    million USD: Minimum equity   held directly  the lender ECB more than  million USD: Minimum paid  equity   held directly  the lender and  ECB liability-equity ratio not exceeding :  . . the totai ECB existing and proposed should not exceed four times the direct foreign equity holding. Besides the paid- capitai, free reserves including share premium received  foreign currency wili also  considered for determining the totai equity held  the foreign equity holderECB from  indirect foreign equity holder holding  minimum   equity  from  group company under  common parent has also been permitted under the approvai route, provided the totai ECB liability does not exceed seven times the foreign equity held directly  indirectly  the lender The prevailing ECB policy stipulates certain specific end-uses for ECB proceeds. ECBs can  availed only for the following: Import  capitai goods, new projects, modernisation and expansion. This window can  availed only for projects  the reai sector - industriai and infrastructure sector and specified services sector Import  services, technicai know-how and payment  license fee  part  import  capitai goods  companies  manufacturing and infrastructure sector subject  certain conditions Overseas acquisition  Indian companies For ali stages  acquisition  shares  the disinvestment process under the government  disinvestment programme  the PSU shares;  other words, facility  ECB  available for multiple rounds  disinvestment  PSU shares under the Government disinvestment programme Companies engaged  the infrastructure sector have been permitted  raise ECB for the payment  interest during construction being capitalised and are permitted  import capitai goods  availing bridge finance  way  the supplier   buyer  credit, subject  certain conditions. Also, such companies can utilise   fresh ECB proceeds  for power sector companies for the repayment  locai rupee borrowings under the approvai route subject  the fulfillment  prescribed conditions Repayment  rupee loan availed for obtaining  licence   permit for  spectrum. This scheme  valid tili March , 2o14 Eligible borrowers can avaii ECB under approvai route from their foreign equity holder company with minimum average maturity   years for generai corporate purposes subject certain conditions Repayment  rupee loan  bridge finance availed  successfui bidder   Spectrum -auction Consistent foreign exchange earning companies  manufacturing infrastructure and the hotei sector with totai project cost  .  billion INR  more irrespective  the geographicai location for hotei sector can avaii ECB for repayment  rupee loan availed for capitai expenditure and fresh rupee capitai expenditure subject  specified conditions, under the approvai route. NBFCs exclusively involved  financing infrastructure projects . . infrastructure finance companies IFCs can avaii ECB     their owned funds under automatic route and beyond that under approvai route, for onlending  the infrastructure sector  defined under the ECB policy and subject  compliance with the norms prescribed  the DNBS Funding Options  IndiaChapter   PwCCircular and hedging requirements  applicable. ECB for low cost affordable housing projects has also been allowed under approvai route and  subject  specified conditions. Low cost affordable housing project   project  which  least  FSI would  for units having maximum carpet area    square meters. Slum rehabilitation projects also qualify for this scheme based  specified eligibility criteria. Hotels, hospitals and software sector are permitted  avaii ECBs under the automatic route. Other service sector units can approach the RBI for permission  raise ECB from foreign equity holders ECB has also been allowed for the maintenance and operation  toli systems for roads and highways ECB for working capitai   permissible end-use has been allowed for the civii aviation sector under the approvai route, subject  the fulfillment  conditions Apart from the specific end uses mentioned above, ECBs are not permitted for, -lending  investment  capitai market  reai estate. Pledge  shares Promoters   Indian company can pledge their shares  secure  loan obtained under ECB. However, this can happen only  the banker  satisfied that the conditions  the loan agreement are met and the loan registration number  obtained.  non-resident shareholder   Indian company can also pledge his  her stake  the company  favour  the   order  secure  credit facility extended  such  company. The pledge may also  made  favour   overseas bank  secure credit facilities extended  non-resident promoters  shareholders  the resident Indian company whose shares are pledged, provided, inter alia, such loaned funds are utilised for overseas business purposes. Quantum restrictions  ECB ECB can  availed for incurring rupee  foreign currency expenditure   the following: 75o million USD for borrowers  the infrastructure and industriai sectors under the automatic route 2oo million USD for borrowers  the service sector hotels, hospitals and software under the automatic route  million USD for lending  self-help groups  for micro-credit  for bonafide micro-finance activity including capacity building  NGOs engaged  micro-finance activities ECBs are required  have the following prescribed minimum average maturities and ali -cost ceilings: The approvai requirements for ECBs have been significantly liberalised.  prior approvals are required for ECBs complying with the prescribed minimum maturities, ali--cost ceilings and end-user requirements. Ali other ECBs require prior approvai from the appropriate RBI committee. Indian corporate bodies raising ECBs  meet foreign currency expenses can retain the funds abroad untii the time  their utilisation. Pre-payments   5oo million USD can  made without approvals, subject  compliance with the minimum average maturity  the loan and  any case three years. Fully and compulsorily convertible preference shares Indian companies can mobilise FIs through the issue  fully and compulsorily convertible preference shares. The conversion formula  price needs   determined upfront. The proposals are processed either through the automatic route  the FIPB route,  the case may , depending  the sector  which the Indian company  engaged . The following guidelines apply: Only compulsorily and fully convertible preference shares are considered foreign direct equity for the purposes  sectorai caps  foreign equity. Ali other kinds  preference shares, optionally convertible  redeemable, fali outside the FDI cap and have  comply with ECB norms The dividend rate should not exceed the limit prescribed  the Ministry  Finance, government  India.   currently fixed  3oo basis points above the State Bank  India  prime lending rate. Debentures Debentures can  issued  Indian companies  raise funds. The debentures can carry  interest coupon rate. Such interest should typically   tax-deductible expense for the Indian company. Where debentures are issued   foreign investor, they need  comply with the FDI policy  case  compulsorily convertible debentures CCDs and with the ECB guidelines where the debentures are non-convertible  optionally convertible.  case  fully CCDs, conversion formula  price has   determined upfront. Globai depository receipts GDRs, American depository receipts ADRs and foreign currency convertible bonds FCCBs Foreign investment through GDRs, ADRs and FCCBs  also treated  FDI. Indian companies are permitted  raise capitai  the internationai market through the issue  GDRs, ADRs and FCCBs, subject  restrictions. The issue  ADRs  GDRs does not require any prior approvai either from the Ministry  Finance, FIPB  the RBI, except where the FDI after such issue wili exceed the sectorai caps  policy requirements,  which case prior approvai from FIPB  required. There are  end use restrictions  ADRs  GDRs except for  ban  deployment  such funds  reai estate  the stock market. The issue  FCCBs   75o million USD also does not require prior approvai. Only companies listed  the stock exchange are allowed  raise capitai through GDRs, ADRs and FCCBs. The end-use  FCCB proceeds has  comply with ECB norms. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 13Foreign currency exchangeable bonds FCEBs   2oo7-, the Indian government notified the foreign currency exchangeable bonds scheme for the issue  FCEBs. The salient features  the scheme are  follows: FCEBs are bonds expressed  foreign currency, the principai and interest  which  payable  the same  FCEB  issued   company which  part  the promoter group   listed company whose equity  offered and which  engaged   sector eligible  receive FDI offered company and which holds shares  the offered company. The FCEB  subscribed    person resident outside India and  exchangeable into  equity share  the offered company  the basis  any equity related warrants attached  debt instruments The investment under the scheme  required  comply with the FDI policy  weli  with the ECB policy requirements. The proceeds  FCEB: can  invested  the promoter group companies. Promoter group companies would have  ensure   used  accordance with end uses prescribed under the ECB policy not utilised for investments  the capitai market   reai estate  India can  invested  the issuing company overseas  way  direct investment , including      wholly owned subsidiary WOS, subject  existing guidelines  Indian      WOS abroad  PwCForeign exchange transactions are regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 FEMA. Under the FEMA, foreign exchange transactions are divided into two broad categories: current account transactions and capitai account transactions. Transactions that alter the assets  liabilities outside India   person resident  India ,  India,   person resident outside India, are classified  capitai account transactions. Ali other transactions are considered current account transactions. The Indian rupee  fully convertible for current account transactions, subject   negative list  transactions which are either prohibited  which require prior approvai.  Indian company with   treated equally with other locally incorporated companies. Similarly,  foreign-invested Indian company  also treated equally with other locally incorporated companies. Accordingly, the exchange controi laws and regulations for residents apply  Indian companies with . Current account transactions Foreign nationals  Indian citizens who are not permanently residing  India and have been deputed   foreign company  its office, branch, subsidiary    India are allowed  make recurring remittances abroad for family maintenance    1oo  their net salary. Further,   1oo  the salary   foreign nationai  Indian citizen deputed   foreign company  its Indian office, branch, subsidiary   can  paid abroad  the foreign company, subject  the foreign nationai  Indian citizen paying applicable taxes  India. Prior approvai  the RBI  required for acquiring foreign currency for the following purposes: Holiday travei over , ooo USD per person . . Gift over , ooo USD  donation over , ooo USD per remitter  donor . . Business travei over , ooo USD per person per visit Foreign studies  per the estimate  the institution  1oo, ooo USD per academic year, whichever  higher Consultancy services procured from abroad  over , ooo, ooo USD per project , ooo, ooo USD  case  infrastructure projects Reimbursement  pre-incorporation expenses over the higher  1oo, ooo USD and   investment brought into India Certain specified remittances are prohibited: Remittances out  lottery winnings Remittance  income from racing, riding, etc.  any other hobby Remittance for the purchase  lottery tickets, banned  prescribed magazines, footbali pools, sweepstakes, etc. Payment  commission  exports made towards equity investments  joint ventures  wholly owned subsidiaries abroad  Indian companies Payment  commission  exports under the rupee state credit route except commission     invoice value  exports  tea and tobacco Payment related  cali back services  telephones Remittance  dividend  any company  which the requirement  dividend balancing  applicable Remittances  interest income  funds held   non- resident speciai rupee account scheme Capitai account transactions Capitai account transactions can  undertaken only  the extent permitted. The RBI has prescribed  list  capitai account transactions, which include the following: Investments overseas  residents Borrowing  lending  foreign exchange Export  import  currency Transfer  acquisition  immovable property   outside India liberalised remittance scheme for resident individuals Under the regulations  the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, resident individuals are permitted  remit   , ooo USD per financiai year for any permitted current  capitai account transaction,   combination  both, subject  specified terms and conditions under the LRS Scheme  addition  specific limits provided under current account transaction rules. Acquisition  immovable property outside India directly  indirectly under LRS scheme would not  allowed.  addition  above, the RBI has permitted eligible resident individuals  access the LRS window  acquire set  overseas  WOS which   operating company outside India for bona fide business activities  making remittance under the LRS within the limit  USD , ooo with effect from August , 2o13.  addition, with respect  overseas investments   joint venture, the limit  financiai commitment  now 1oo  networth  the Indian entity   the last audited balance sheet date. Investment beyond this cap requires prior permission from Reserve Bank  India. Ali other transactions otherwise not permissible under FEMA and those  the nature  remittances for margins  margin calls  overseas exchanges  overseas counterparties are not allowed under the scheme. Significant Exchange Controi Regulations Chapter  Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 15Miscellaneous repatriation  capitai Foreign capitai invested  India  generally repatriable, along with capitai appreciation,  any, after the payment  taxes due, provided the investment was   repatriation basis. Acquisition  immovable property  India Generally, foreigners are not permitted  acquire immovable property except  cases  inheritance, acquisition  lease for period not exceeding  years and, where the property  required for the business  the Indian branch, office  subsidiary  the foreign entity. NRIs  PIOs are permitted  acquire immovable properties except agriculturai land, plantation property and farmhouse. Royalties and technicai know-how fees Indian companies can make payment for trademark  technology royalties without any restrictions under the automatic route. Dividends Dividends are freely repatriable after the payment  dividend distribution tax  the Indian company declaring the dividend. RBI permission  not necessary for  dividend affecting  remittance, subject  specified compliance requirements. Remittances  branch  project office  prior approvai  required for remitting profits earned  the Indian branches  foreign companies other than banks  their head offices outside India. Remittances  the winding- proceeds   branch office   foreign company  India are permitted subject  the authorised dealer  approvai. Remittances  winding- proceeds   project office   foreign company  India are permitted under the automatic route subject  the fulfillment  the compliance requirements.  PwCDirect Taxation  India Chapter  For  company Rates Domestic company  plus applicable surcharge and cess Foreign company  plus applicable surcharge and cess Particulars Tax rates Resident Non-resident . Short-term capitai assets1 other than  below Normai corporate individuai tax rates Normai corporate individuai tax rates . Short-term capitai assets-listed equity shares and units  equity-oriented funds which have been charged  securities transaction tax STT   . Long-term capitai assets-listed equity shares   company  unit   equity-oriented fund which have been charged  STT Exempt Exempt . Long-term capitai assets-listed securities other than  above   . Other long-term capitai assets2   Long-term capitai gains arising   non-resident not being  company   foreign company from transfer  unlisted securities    indexation benefit For  company Where taxable income exceeds  million INROther cases Domestic company .  .  Foreign company .  .  Dividend distribution tax DDT Indian companies distributing  declaring dividends are liable  pay DDT   plus  surcharge,  education cess, and  secondary and higher education cess. This tax  payable  declaration, distribution,  payment, whichever  earlier, and    addition  the income-tax payable  business profits. Speciai economic zone SEZ developers and units   SEZ are liable  pay DDT   plus  surcharge,  education cess, and  secondary and higher education cess with effect from  June 2o11.  holding company does not have  pay DDT  dividends paid  its shareholders  the extent that  has received dividends from its Indian  foreign subsidiary company  which DDT has been paid  the respective subsidiary. However, the benefit wili not  available  the holding company  itself  subsidiary  another company. Tax  buyback  shares  additionai tax  payable  transaction involving the buyback  shares  unlisted companies from its shareholders.  tax   plus  surcharge,  education cess and  secondary and higher secondary education cess  payable  the company  the difference between consideration paid  buyback and the issue price  shares. The buyback consideration received would  tax-exempt  the hands  the receiver.  tax credit would  allowed  case  such taxes paid either  the company   the shareholder. Minimum alternate tax MAT  bring zero tax companies under the tax net, MAT  . , plus applicable surcharge and education cess,  the book profits  levied  companies whose tax payable under normai income-tax provisions  less than .   adjusted book profits. MAT  also applicable  SEZ developers and units   SEZ with effect from financiai year  2o11-. The current effective rates are  follows: Applicable surcharge and education cess wili also  levied  the above tax rates. The credit  tax paid under MAT provisions  allowed against the tax liability which arises  the subsequent  years under the normai provisions  the Income-tax Act. Unadjusted MAT credit can  carried forward tili the 1oth year, following the year  which the credit arises. Alternate minimum tax  ali persons other than companies MAT provisions which were applicable only  companies were extended  limited liability partnerships LLPs with effect from  2o11-  the modified form  alternate minimum tax AMT. AMT provisions have now been further extended  ali other assessees with effect from  2o12-. AMT wili  applicable  the rate  .   the adjusted totai income  per income-tax provisions rather than the adjusted book profits   the case for companies. Like companies, AMT credit wili  available  LLPs and other assessees for the period   years.  the case   individuai,  Hindu undivided family HUF,  association  persons,  body  individuals   artificiai judiciai person, AMT  not payable  the adjusted totai income  such  person does not exceed  million INR. Capitai gains Applicable surcharge and education cess wili also  levied  the above tax rates. Corporate tax rates Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 17Factory building  Furniture and fittings  Plant and machinery generai  Computers including software  Motorcars, other than those used   business  running them  hire  Intangible assets such  know-how, patents, copyrights, trademarks, licences, franchises  any other business  commerciai rights   similar nature  Windmili  For certain priority items, such  energy-saving devices and pollution controi equipment, depreciation  allowed  higher rates. Undertakings engaged  the business  generation  generation and distribution  power have the option  claiming tax depreciation  the above rates    straight-line basis  rates prescribed  the Income-tax Rules, 1962. The rates vary from .   . . .  short-term capitai asset  one held for  period  not more than  months not more than  months  the case  shares, listed securities, units  mutuai funds and zero coupon bonds. . Indexation  cost  acquisition and improvement   long-term capitai asset  any nature other than debentures  bond other than capitai indexed bonds issued  the government  available  residents. However, the benefit  indexation wili not  available  non-residents  long-term capitai assets being shares  debentures   Indian company acquired  foreign currency. Securities, including equity shares   company  unit   equity-oriented fund, which have not been charged  STT, may  taxed   plus applicable surcharge and education cess without providing indexation benefit  the taxpayer. Computation  totai income: Generai Ali income that accrues  arises   deemed  accrue  arise   received  deemed   received  India  taxable  the hands   non-resident taxpayer subject  the benefit  the double taxation avoidance agreement DTAA with the taxpayer  country  residence. Taxable income  computed for  uniform accounting year, . . , the fiscai year from  Aprii   March. The taxable income  called totai income, computed after adding certain disallowances, such  loss  the sale  assets and the reduction  certain allowances  benefits from the profits. Depreciation Depreciation  allowed separately  the following rates for computing taxable income:  the case   new asset, depreciation for the whole year  allowed only  the asset  put  use for 18o days  more during the fiscai year. Otherwise, depreciation  allowed  only half the prescribed rate.  addition,  depreciation  the actuai cost   new plant  machinery acquired and installed after  March 2oo5  allowed   taxpayer engaged  the manufacture  production  any product  generation  distribution  power  the year  which such  new plant  machinery  acquired and installed. Undertakings engaged  the generation and distribution  power can  claimed  tax depreciation  the above rates    straight-line basis  rates prescribed  the Income-tax Rules, 1962. The rates vary from .   . . Investment allowance Investment allowance benefit  allowed for companies engaged  the business  manufacture  any article. The benefit  deduction  allowed for investment made  the new plant and machinery acquired and installed during  2o13- and 2o14-. The aggregate investment during these years should  more than  billion INR.  deduction    the value  the investment made  allowed. The assets have   held for more than five years.  the asset  sold before the period, the investment benefit claimed wili  reversed  the year  sale. Investment   new plant and machinery wili not include assets such  plant  machinery used earlier   outside India, any plant  machinery installed  any office premises   residentiai accommodation  guesthouse, any office appliances including computers  computer software, vehicle, ship  aircraft. Taxation  the know-how fee  the hands  foreign companies Under domestic tax law, royalties  technicai fees payable  non-residents with  permanent establishment  India are taxed   net basis.  contrast, they are taxed   gross basis  the case  non-residents without  permanent establishment  the country. The following tax rate apply: . . ,  Aprii 2o13, the applicable rate   for royalty and fee for technicai services Surcharge and education cess,  applicable, wili also  levied.  the applicable DTAA provides for  rate lower than the above, the same would become applicable. Taxing dividends received from overseas group companies From  2o11-, dividends received  Indian companies from specified foreign companies wili  taxed   concessionai rate  , this has been further extended   2o13-. However,  expenditure wili  deductible while computing this income. Specified foreign company refers  the Indian company that holds   more  nominai value  the equity share capitai.  PwCDouble tax avoidance agreements The DTAAs override the provisions  the Indian Income-tax Act  the extent that they are more beneficiai  the assessee. India has signed DTAAs with  countries  far. Tax residency certificate TRC For obtaining DTAA benefit,  wili  necessary for  nonresident assessee  furnish  certificate   being  resident  that country, obtained  the assessee from the government  that country. The government had earlier prescribed the particulars   contained  the TRC. However, the requirement  obtaining TRC containing prescribed particulars has been removed with effect from  2o12-. Particulars  may  prescribed can  provided separately, through supporting documents. The 2o13 Budget has amended the provisions  provide that the TRC produced   resident   contracting state wili  accepted  his  her residentiai evidence. Note: Concessionai tax rates applicable under certain DTAAs that India has signed with various countries are provided  under Annexure . Tax information exchange agreements TIEA Since 2o11, India has entered into  TIEAs, with Argentina, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey, the Isle  Man, Jersey, Liberia, Liechtenstein not yet  force, Macau China and Monaco. The objective   promote internationai cooperation  tax matters through the exchange  information. These agreements facilitate information-sharing including the exchange  banking and ownership information. However, the nature  tax-related information that can  shared under  TIEA varies from one agreement  another. Besides,  other DTAAs  far signed  India also contain standard clauses similar  the operative clauses   TIEA. These countries are Australia not yet  force, Chinese Taipei, Colombia not yet  force, Estonia, Ethiopia, Georgia, Indonesia not yet  force, Lithuania, Malaysia, Malta not yet  force, Mexico, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepai, Netherlands, Norway, Poland not yet  force, Singapore, Spain not yet  force, Sweden not yet  force, Switzerland, Tajikistan, Tanzania, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom not yet  force, Uruguay not yet  force, and Uzbekistan not yet  force. Transactions with persons located  notified territories Anti-avoidance measures have been introduced from  June 2o11  order  discourage transactions with those located  countries that  not effectively exchange information with India. These measures enable the Indian government  designate any country  jurisdiction not exchanging information with India   notified jurisdictionai area. Transactions between any taxpayer and  party located   notified jurisdictionai area wili  deemed  transactions between associated enterprises. Transfer pricing regulations wili apply accordingly. Transactions with those located  such jurisdictions wili have the following additionai implications:  deduction wili  allowed  payments made  any financiai institution unless  authorisation  issued  the income-tax authorities  seek relevant information from the financiai institution  deduction wili  allowed for any expenditure  allowance unless the taxpayer maintains the prescribed documents  provides the prescribed information  the tax authorities Receipts from  person located  the notified jurisdictions, wili become taxable income for the taxpayer unless   she  able  explain the source  this money  the hands  the payer   the hands  the beneficiai owner. Payments made   person   notified jurisdictionai area wili  liable for withholding  tax   higher rate. Advance rulings  facilitate fuli planning and  avoid future disputes,  non-resident can approach the Authority for Advance Rulings AAR  determine aspects  any proposed  current transaction.  advance ruling can also  sought   resident  determine the tax liability   non-resident with whom  transaction has been undertaken   proposed   undertaken. Certain notified residents can also apply  the authority  seek  ruling concerning the computation  totai income. Such  advance ruling wili  binding  the person seeking   relation  the transaction and the income-tax department cannot disregard the ruling unless there  change  the facts  laws affecting . Generai Anti Avoidance Rule GAAR The provisions relating  GAAR were proposed  the 2o12 Union Budget. After receiving various representations against the provisions,  expert committee under the chairmanship   Parthasarathi Shome was set . The 2o13 Budget has considered most  this committee  recommendations and has extended the due date from which the GAAR provisions take effect   Aprii 2o16. This means that the GAAR provisions wili apply from  2o15-. The provisions empower the tax department  declare  arrangement entered into   assessee    impermissible avoidance agreement IAA. Consequences  this wili  the deniai  tax benefit either under the provisions  the Act  under the tax treaty. The provisions can  invoked for any step   part  any arrangement entered and that arrangement  step may  declared   IAA. The provisions wili attract only the main purpose  the arrangement  step, which   obtain tax benefit. GAAR provisions wili not apply  the following cases: Where tax benefit  ali the parties  aggregate from  arrangement   relevant tax year does not exceed INR  million; Foreign Institutionai Investors FIIs registered with Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 19Securities and Exchange Board  India SEBI and not availing any benefit under  Tax Treaty and also investment  FII made  non-resident investor Income earned  any person from transfer  investment   after  Aprii 2o15  respect  the investement made  such person before  August 2o1o Royalty payments The expression royalty  defined  consideration received  receivable for transfer  ali  any right for certain property  information. However, there were the following controversies with regard  meaning, characterisation, scope and taxability  royalty: Whether consideration for use  computer software  royalty  not Whether the right, property  information has   used directly  the payer     located  India  controi  possession   has   with the payer The meaning  the term process, etc.  order  eliminate the above controversies, the definition  royalty provided under the domestic tax laws has been amended and clarified retrospectively with  effect from  June 1976.  has been clarified that the consideration for use  right  use  computer software  royalty and that transfer  ali  any rights  respect  any right, property  information includes transfer  ali  any right for use  right  use  computer software including granting   licence irrespective  the medium through which such  right  transferred.  has also been clarified that royalty includes consideration for any right, property  information, whether  not the following conditions apply: The possession  controi  such  right, property  information  with the payer Such  right, property  information  used directly  the payer The location  such  right, property  information   India Further,  has also been clarified that the term process includes transmission  satellite including -linking, amplification, conversion for down-linking  any signai, cable, optic fibre   any other similar technology, whether  not such  process  secret. Meaning not defined under the DTAA  domestic tax law  has been recently provided that  case any term used  the DTAA  not defined either under   the domestic tax law and  meaning  assigned    issue   notification  the centrai government and such  notification  brought into force, then the meaning wili become applicable  the DTAA from the date when  came into force. Tax return  persons holding assets outside India Any resident who  otherwise not required  furnish  return  income, wili now  required  furnish  return before the specified due date,    she has any asset located outside India including any financiai interest  any entity,    signing authority  any account located outside India. Wealth tax Wealth tax  charged  net wealth    March every year referred   the valuation date.   charged both  individuals  weli  companies  the rate    the amount  which the net wealth exceeds  million INR. The term net wealth broadly represents the excess value  certain assets over the debts concerned. Assets include guest houses and residences, motorcars, jewellery, bullion, utensils  gold and silver, yachts, boats, aircraft, urban land and cash.  debt   obligation  pay  certain sum  money incurred  relation  any assets that are included  net wealth. Direct Taxes Code DTC   August 2o1o the government placed before the Parliament the Direct Taxes Code Bili, 2o1o.   modelled  the draft Direct Taxes Code originally released  August 2oo9, changes proposed  the revised discussion paper released  June 2o1o and further suggestions and comments made  stakeholders. Note: The salient features  the 2o1o Bili are summarised  Annexure . Gift tax However, there   gift tax liability  India. Any sum  money exceeding  immovable property whose stamp duty value exceeds  any immovable property whose fair market value exceeds , ooo INR received without consideration   individuai from any person wili  subject  tax  income from other sources. This wili not apply  any sum  money received from the following: Relative spouse, brother, sister, brother  sister  the spouse  any lineai ascendants  descendants  the occasion  marriage  the individuai Under  wili   way  inheritance  the death expectation  the donor Tax incentive schemes Speciai economic zone scheme The SEZ policy was introduced  the government  2ooo  provide  internationally competitive and conducive environment for exports. The SEZ Act, 2oo5 along with the associated rules, provides the framework for ali important legai and regulatory aspects  development  weli  for units operating  SEZs.  PwCSEZs are duty-free enclaves considered   outside the customs territory  India for the purposes  carrying out their authorised activities. SEZ developers are entitled  tax holiday  respect  1oo  the profits and gains derived from the business  developing the units for any  consecutive years out   beginning from the year when the SEZ  notified  the government. Exemption  SEZ developers from DDT has been discontinued with effect from  June 2o11 and MAT exemption  developers has been discontinued from  2o11-. Expenditure undertaken   developer  account  SEZ development  also exempt from duties  customs, excise and centrai sales tax.  unit set    approved SEZ enjoys  1oo tax holiday for five years and  for the next  years  the last five years, subject  certain additionai conditions out  profits derived from actuai exports  goods and services. The tax holiday period commences from the year  which the SEZ unit begins  manufacture  produce  provide services. Note: Annexure  describes the salient features and benefits  the SEZ. Industriai parks enterprises  undertakings  specified states Income-tax holidays and exemptions from CENVAT are available for units set   industriai parks  the north eastern states, subject  certain conditions. State Incentives Validity period Eligible units North- eastern states including Sikkim 1oo income tax holiday Concessionai rate  duty payable  ten years, value addition during manufacture  refund  duty  cash, subject  conditions Ten years Units that  begin manufacturing any eligible article  thing  undertake substantiai expansion  carry  prescribed eligible business, from  Aprii 2oo7   March 2o17. New industriai units and units existing before  Aprii which have undertaken substantiai expansion  refund  duty paid  cash, subject  increase  investment    more commencement  production between  Aprii 2oo7 and  March 2o17 Deduction  investments for specified businesses Tax incentives provided  allowing  1oo deduction  any capitai expenditure other than  land, goodwili and financiai instruments  available  the following types  businesses: Setting  and operating  cold chain facility   after  Aprii 2oo9 Setting  and operating  warehousing facility for storage  agriculturai produce onor after  Aprii 2oo9 Laying and operating  cross-country naturai gas, crude, petroleum oii pipeline for distribution, including storage facilities being  integrai part  such  network commencing operations   after  Aprii 2oo7 Building and operating, anywhere  India,  two-star hotei  above category commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o1o Building and operating, anywhere  India,  hospitai with  least 1oo beds commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o1o Developing and building  housing project under  scheme for slum redevelopment  rehabilitation commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o1o Developing and building  housing project under  notified scheme  affordable housing framed  the centrai   state government commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o11 Fertiliser production   new plant   newly installed capacity   existing plant commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o11 Setting  and operating  inland container depot   container freight station notified  approved under the customs act 1962,   after  Aprii 2o12 Bee-keeping and production  honey and beeswax   after  Aprii 2o12 Setting  and operating  warehouse facility for storage  sugar   after  Aprii 2o12 Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 21In case  certain specified businesses commencing operations   after  Aprii 2o12 such  cold chain facility, warehousing for agriculturai produce, hospitai with  least 1oo beds,  notified affordable housing project and production  fertiliser, the deduction  15o  capitai expenditure incurred   after  Aprii 2o12. Tax holiday for other facilities such  food processing units  1oo tax holiday for the first five years and  deduction     the assessee  not  company  profits for the subsequent five years are available  undertakings engaged  the business  processing, preservation and packaging  fruits and vegetables   the integrated business  handling storage and transportation  food grains, starting operations   after  Aprii 2oo1. Further, this  available  additionai industries such  processing, preserving and packaging  meat and meat products  poultry, marine and dairy products, that has began operations   before  Aprii 2oo9. Scientific research and development  certain conditions are met,  deduction  available  twice the amount  scientific research expenditure incurred   approved -house research and development facility   company engaged  the business  bio-technology  any business  manufacture  production  any article  thing except specified articles. Currently, this weighted deduction  available untii  2o16-. From  2o11-, any sum paid   nationai laboratory,  university,   Indian Institute  Technology IIT,  approved scientific research programme also qualifies for  weighted deduction  2oo  against the earlier 175.  weighted deduction  125  available  any sum paid for scientific research   domestic company,  such  company fulfils the following conditions: Scientific research and development  its main objective Approved  the prescribed authority,  the prescribed manner Fulfils other conditions  may  prescribed  PwCInternationai assignments  India Chapter  There   tax regime distinct for foreign nationals working  India. Taxation   individuai residing  India depends  his  her residentiai status for the relevant tax year, which  turn depends  the number  days   she was physically present  the country.  India, the financiai year that , the tax year runs from  Aprii  the current year   March  the succeeding year. Under the domestic tax law,  person  considered    resident  India  either  the following conditions  satisfied:   she  present  India for  period  182 days  more  the relevant financiai year also referred   the 182 days rule   she  present  India for  days during the relevant tax year, and 365 days  more  the preceding four financiai years also referred   the  days rule However,   situation where  citizen  India leaves the country for the purpose  taking  employment outside India,    case where  Indian citizen   person  Indian origin, living outside India, comes   visit  the country, only 182 days rule wili  applicable.  case  individuai satisfies neither  the conditions,   she wili then qualify   non-resident  for that given financiai year.  resident individuai  treated   resident but not ordinarily resident RNOR  India,    she satisfies any one  the following conditions:   she   non-resident  nine out  the  years preceding the relevant financiai year   she  physically present  India for 729 days  less during the seven years preceding the relevant financiai year  case,  individuai does not satisfy both the conditions listed above,   she wili then qualify   resident and ordinarily resident ROR for that specific financiai year.  determining the physicai presence   individuai  India,   not essentiai that his  her stay  the country needs   continuous   the same place. Further, both, the date  arrivai  weli  the date  departure are   considered  days spent  India  order  determine the duration  stay  the individuai  the country.   foreign individuai qualifies   tax resident  both India  weli  his  her home country, the conditions prescribed under the tie-breaker test  the relevant DTAA wili have   referred   order  determine the tax residentiai status  the foreign individuai. Scope  taxation Under the domestic tax laws, the scope  taxation for each category  residentiai status   follows: ROR: Worldwide income  the individuai  liable  tax  India for the relevant tax year RNOR: Income received  India, income accruing  arising from  particular source  India, income derived from  business controlled from India,  income from  profession set   India  liable  tax  the country : Income received  India  income accruing  arising from  particular source  India  liable  tax  India Taxation  employment income Employment income for services rendered  India  taxable  the country, irrespective  where the income  received. Taxable income includes ali kinds  amounts, received either  cash  kind, arising from  office  employment. Apart from income sources such  salaries, fees, bonuses and commissions, some  the most common remuneration items are allowances, reimbursement  personai expenses, education payments and perquisites  benefits provided  the employer, either free  cost   concessionai rates. Ali such payments are   included, whether paid directly  the employee   his  her behalf. Housing benefits provided   employer are generally taxed    the salary  the actuai rent paid for the accommodation, whichever  less. Hotei accommodation  taxable    the salary  the actuai amount paid, whichever  less. Cost  meals and laundry expenses are fully taxable. The value  any specified security  sweat equity shares allotted  transferred directly  indirectly  the employer  the former employer, free  cost    concessionai rate, and the amount  any contribution   approved superannuation fund  the employer,  the extent that  exceeds  amount  , , ooo INR, are taxable  perquisites  the hands  the employee. Car and driver facilities provided  the employer are also taxable  perquisites  concessionai value. There are  number  issues relating  the taxation  employment income, which depends  the facts and circumstances  each case, and  the views taken  the tax authorities. Therefore,   advisable  seek professionai advice  the remuneration package   whole,  order  minimise Indian tax incidence. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 23Tax withholding With respect  employment income, the employer wili  required  withhold tax  the earnings from his  her salary  applicable rates and hand over the same  the government  treasury within seven days from the end  the month during which salary  paid except for March wherein the timeline  extended    Aprii  the given financiai year. This  applicable even  the employer  not resident  India. Double taxation agreements   situation where  individuai  treated   tax resident  another country,   she may then qualify for  relief from the Indian tax law under  double taxation agreement signed between the given country and India. Most  the current agreements lay down various tests  order  determine the actuai residentiai status  the individuai. Many agreements contain clauses, which exempt  resident   specific country from tax  employment income incurred within India,    she has been residing  the country for less than 183 days within the given tax year, and  other conditions regarding the salary charge back and the payment  salary   non-resident, etc are also satisfied short stay exemptions.   situation where the individuai  coming from  non-treaty country,  short stay exemption  available under the domestic tax law, provided the individuai  stay  India, during that particular the tax year, does not exceed  days and certain other conditions are met. Tax rates Taxes are levied  progressive rates  India. Rates applicable for financiai year 2o13- are  follows: Taxable income over INR Not over INR Tax  column  INR Percentage  tax  excess  , , ooo -  , , oo1 , , ooo -  , , oo1 , , ooo , ooo  , , oo1 - , , ooo  Resident senior citizens, aged  years  more, earning  income   , , ooo INR  not have  pay any income tax  the country. For senior citizens, aged  years and above, the basic exemption limit  , , ooo INR.  tax credit    , ooo INR  provided   individuai earning  income between 2oo, ooo and 5oo, ooo INR. Further,  surcharge    tax wili  levied   situation where the totai income   individuai exceeds  million INR.  addition  the above conditions,  education cess  the rate    the tax and surcharge  applicable wili  levied    determine the finai tax liability. Tax registration  individuai needs  apply for and obtain his  her tax registration number called the permanent account number PAN.  PAN  required  order  file the tax returns, and also has   reported  the tax withholding returns  certificates  the individuai. Tax returns filing  the end  each financiai  tax year,  tax return has   filed with the income tax authorities  the prescribed format. The due date for filing  return   July  the relevant assessment year. However,  belated return can  filed before the expiry  one year from the end  relevant assessment year.   mandatory  file the return electronically  the totai income exceeds 5oo, ooo INR  where the individuai qualifies   ROR and possesses foreign assets,  has the signing authority for any  his  her accounts located outside India. Other matters Visa  foreign nationai coming  India must hold  valid passport and visa.  visa  issued  the Indian consulates  high commissions situated  the respective country, depending upon the purpose and duration  visit.  foreign nationai  not permitted  take  employment within India, unless   she holds  employment visa.  employment visa  issued  highly skilled talent  professionals provided that they draw  salary exceeding the prescribed limit. Such  visa  generally issued for  period  one  two years. Extension  the visa can  done  India itself. Foreign nationals coming for business meetings   set  joint ventures JVs require  business visa.  business visa  cannot  converted into  employment visa within India. Registration with the foreigners regionai registration officer  foreign nationai visiting India, who either has  valid employment visa  intends  stay for more than 18o days, must register himself  herself within  days  arrivai into the country with the foreigners regionai registration officer FRRO.  submission  the prescribed documents  the FRRO,  residentiai permit  thereby issued  the foreign nationai. Payment  salaries outside India The current regulations for exchange controi permit  foreign nationai, who   employee   foreign company, and   secondment  deputation  the office branch subsidiary joint venture  India,  open, hold and maintain  foreign currency account with  bank outside India, and receive his  her entire salary from foreign company for the services rendered  India  credit  bank outside India, provided the tax  the foreign nationai  entire salary has been paid  India.  PwCSociai security  India  October 2oo8, the government introduced its mandatory sociai security norms for foreign nationals, who wili qualify   internationai workers.  foreign nationai qualifies    internationai worker,    she  coming  India  work for  establishment located within India,  which the Indian sociai security regulations apply.  internationai worker coming from  country, with which India has  reciprocai sociai security agreement SSA,  exempted from the Indian sociai security norms   situation where   she meets the following criteria:   she  contributing  his  her home country  sociai security, either   citizen  resident; and   she enjoys the status  detached worker for the given period, and according  the terms specified  the relevant SSA Similarly,  internationai worker from  country with which India has entered into  bilaterai comprehensive economic agreement prior   October 2oo8  exempted Indian sociai security where   she meets the following criteria;   she  contributing  his  her home country  sociai security, either   citizen  resident; and The agreement specifically exempts the naturai person  the other contracting country from contributing  the sociai security system  IndiaIndia has,  far, signed SSAs with  countries. However,  far, only the SSAs signed with countries such  Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark, Korea, France and Hungary, have been notified and made operationai. Every internationai worker has  contribute   his  her salary, comprising mainly  basic wages, dearness allowance, retaining allowance but excluding components such  bonus, house rent allowance, etc.  the Employee  Provident Fund. The employer  required  make  matching contribution that ,   the salary and deposit both the employer   weli  the employee  contributions, along with  administrative charge  approximately .   the salary with the Indian sociai security authorities  the 2oth day  the following month. Out  the employer  contribution  ,  amount equai  .   salary  allocated  the pension fund  the internationai worker.  internationai worker can withdraw the accumulated balance  the provident fund under the following circumstances: Retirement from service  the establishment  after reaching  years  age, whichever  later Retirement  account  permanent and totai incapacity  work due  bodily  mentai infirmity,  certified   prescribed medicai officer   registered practitioner   situation where   she  suffering from certain categories  diseases, detailed  the terms  the scheme  ceasing    employee   covered establishment, where the internationai worker  from  SSA country Internationai workers covered under  SSA wili  eligible for withdrawai  exportability  pension,  per the provisions  the relevant SSA. However, internationai workers coming from countries with which India does not have  SSA can withdraw the pension only after rendering services for  years with the covered establishments. For more detailed analysis and further information, please refer  our past publications, Assignments  India and Indian sociai security for cross-border assignments. Foreign nationals who are sent  India  secondment  their foreign employers, for services   rendered  India, must ensure that  proper secondment structure  already  place. The following considerations need   kept  mind: Place  delivery  the salary Charging back the salary  the Indian entity,     paid outside India Current exchange controi regulations for delivering the foreign nationai  salary Corporate tax implications permanent establishment exposure Withholding tax Transfer pricing regulations Service tax implications Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 25Indirect Taxation  India Chapter  Customs duty Customs duty  levied  the centrai government  goods imported into and exported from India, though the list  goods  which export duty  levied  limited. The rate  customs duty applicable   product   imported  exported depends  its classification under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 CTA. The customs tariff  India  aligned upto  six-digit levei with the internationally recognised Harmonised Commodity Description and Coding System  tariff nomenclature HSN provided  the World Customs Organisation. Customs duty  levied  the transaction value  the imported  exported goods. While the generai principles adopted for the valuation  goods  India are  conformity with the World Trade Organisation WTO agreement  customs valuation, the centrai government has established independent customs valuation rules applicable  the export and import  goods. India does not have one uniform element  customs duty, and the duty applicable  any product  composed   number  components. The types  customs duties applicable are  follows: Basic customs duty BCD  the basic component  customs duty levied  the effective rate notified under the First Schedule  the CTA and applied  the landed value  the goods . . the CIF value  the goods plus landing charges   The peak rate  BCD  currently set   for ali goods other than agriculturai and other specified products. However, the government has the power  exempt specific goods, wholly   part, from the levy  custom duties.  addition, preferentiai  concessionai rates  duty are available under various bilaterai and multilaterai trade agreements that India has entered into with other countries The countervailing duty CVD  equivalent , and  charged  lieu , the excise duty applicable  like goods manufactured  India. CVD  calculated  the landed value  goods and the applicable BCD. However, the CVD  specific consumer goods intended for retaii sale  calculated  the basis  the maximum retaii price MRP printed  their packs after allowing specified abatements. The generai rate  excise duty  currently  and consequently   the rate  CVD Education cess    and secondary and higher education cess SHEC   are also levied  the aggregate customs duties Additionai duty  customs ADC    charged  addition  the above duties  imports, subject  certain exceptions. ADC  calculated  the aggregate  the assessable value  imported goods, the totai customs duties . . BCD and CVD and the applicable  and SHEC BCD,  and SHEC levied  aggregate customs duties are  cost  any import transaction. The duty incidence arising  account  ali other components may  set off  refunded, subject  prescribed conditions. Where goods are imported for the purposes  manufacture, the Indian manufacturer may take credit for the CVD and ADC paid  the time  import  set  off against the output excise duty.  the case  service providers, CVD credit  available  set off against the output service tax. The centrai government has exempted specific consumer goods imported for retaii sale  India, from levy  ADC, subject  the fulfillment  conditions. Similarly, the government allows  refund for the ADC paid  specified goods imported for the purpose  trading  India, subject  the fulfillment  the conditions prescribed under the governing notifications and circulars issued  this regard. CENVAT excise duty Centrai value added tax CENVAT, commonly referred   excise duty,   tax levied  the centrai government  the manufacture  production  movable and marketable goods  India. The rate  excise duty levied  the goods depends  the classification  the goods under the excise tariff, which  primarily based  the HSN classification adopted    achieve conformity with the customs tariff. The standard rate  excise duty for non-petroleum products  .  addition, Education Cess    and Secondary and higher education   are applicable  aggregate excise duties. Thus, the effective rate  excise duty  . . The excise duty  most consumer goods intended for retaii sale  chargeable  the basis  the MRP printed  the goods packaging. However, abatements are admissible  rates ranging from     the MRP for charging excise duty. Goods other than those covered   MRP-based assessment are generally chargeable  duty  the transaction value sold   independent buyer.  addition, the centrai government has the power  fix tariff values for charging  valorem duties  goods. The excise duty operates   pure value added tax VAT, with fuli set-off  input tax credits  computing and discharging the tax liabilities  the output side. The input tax credit comprises excise duty  indigenously sourced inputs and capitai goods, the CVD and ADC portion  customs duty  imported materiai and service tax  input services, with the exception  certain exclusion that have been provided under CENVAT credit rules  this relation. There are different product, industry and geographicai area specific exemptions available under CENVAT, which present excellent business opportunities  manufacturers  India. Service tax The service tax was first introduced  India  the year 1994 with  relatively limited number  services under its ambit. Since then, the list  services has been expanded year  year.  2o12, keeping  with the large number  different service categories and the resultant classification issues,  new concept  service taxation based   negative list  services was introduced.  this new system  taxation, ali services are taxable but for the services mentioned  the negative list. Generally,   the service provider who  liable  pay the service tax. However, for some specified services, such  transport  goods  road, sponsorship, import  services, etc.  PwCthe obligation  pay service tax rests with the service receiver instead.  certain cases, this obligation has been divided between the receiver and the provider   specified proportion. The existing rate  service tax  .  addition,    and SHEC    the service tax are levied  taxable services. Thus, the effective rate  service tax  . . There   simple online procedure prescribed for the service provider and receiver  register under service tax. The service provider  receiver rendering services from multiple locations within India has been given  option  take either  centralised registration for ali locations  opt for separate registration for different locations. Similar  excise duty, service tax  also  pure value added tax. Since both service tax  weli  excise duty are federai levies, cross input tax credit has also been allowed. The scheme  input tax credit under service tax has been integrated under CENVAT credit rules and the benefits available  manufacturers have also being extended  the service provider. The valuation methodology adopted under service tax  based  the gross value charged  the service provider.  certain circumstances, the value  derived  per specified valuation rules. Service tax   consumption-based tax. The peculiar nature  services makes  difficult sometimes  determine the origin and place  consumption  services  the time  completion and rendition  services. This aspect  service taxation  India has progressed tremendously  recent times. Introduction  Point  Taxation Rules, 2o11, Place  Provision  Services Rules, 2o12 along with the introduction  taxable  non-taxable territory under the negative list based service taxation regime has simplified the process  determination  time and place  rendition and completion  service.  addition  the negative list  services, there are certain services such  education, infrastructure projects like development  roads and bridges, healthcare, sponsorship  sports events, etc which are specifically made exempt from the levy  service tax. There   abatement scheme for valuation  certain specific service such  transportation, financiai leasing, renting, etc and the rate  exemption varies from     the taxable value. Export  services are completely tax neutrai and benefits such  refund  input tax credit and rebate  duty payments are also available. Sales tax The sale  movable goods  India  chargeable  tax  the federai  state levei. The Indian regulatory framework has granted power  state legislatures  levy tax  goods sold within that state.  the other hand, ali goods sold  the course  interstate trade are subject  the federai sales tax . . centrai sales tax CST. CST  levied  the rate applicable  such goods under the VAT law  the originating state. Where goods are bought and sold  registered dealers for trading  for use  inputs  the manufacture  other goods  specified activities such  mining  telecommunication networks, the rate  CST would  , provided  appropriate declaration form Form   this case  issued  the purchasing dealer  the selling dealer. Inter-state procurement  which CST  charged  the originating state  not eligible for input tax credit  the destination state. Value Added Tax State-levei sales tax was replaced  VAT with effect from  Aprii, 2oo5  most Indian states.  present, ali the Indian states have transitioned  the VAT regime. Under this regime, the VAT paid  goods purchased within the state  eligible for VAT credit. The input VAT credit can  utilised against the VAT  CST payable  the sale  goods. This ensures that the cascading effect  taxes  avoided and that only the value addition  taxed. Currently, there   VAT  goods imported into India. Exports are zero rated. This means that while exports are not charged  VAT, the purchaser  inputs used  the manufacture  export goods  goods purchased for exports can claim  refund  the VAT charged  the goods.  reference  the importance  each commodity with respect  the trade  goods  the state, varying tariff rates are assigned  different commodities. Generai tariff rates prevalent  the state VAT laws could vary from     . Apart from this, ali those goods which are not covered under any  the tariff rates would  chargeable  the residuai rate, which may vary from .   . . Turnover thresholds have been prescribed    keep smali traders out  the ambit  VAT. Smali traders can also opt  pay tax under composition scheme,   lower rate, levied  lieu  VAT. Octroi duty  entry tax Entry tax   entry  specified goods into the state from outside the state for use, consumption  sale therein. Entry tax continues  exist under the VAT regime, though  certain states  has been made Vatable and can  set off against the output VAT liability  the state. Entry tax  levied  purchase value, which  defined  the amount  the valuable consideration paid  payable   person for the purchase  any goods. The value  the specified goods can  ascertained from the originai invoice for purchase  such goods. Octroi   municipai tax levied  the time  the entry  specified goods into the limits  the municipai corporation. Thus, octroi can  levied  there  movement  goods from one city  another  the same state,  the event the cities fali under the jurisdiction  two different municipai corporations. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 27Goods and services tax GST  2oo6, the centrai government took  major step towards the transition   nationai integrated GST. Implementation  the GST wili   historicai reform  India   wili subsume CVD, excise duties, service tax, CST, state VAT and some other state levies.  present,  duai-rate GST modei  envisaged whereby the tax rate wili  converged  one standardised rate    goods and services within three years  implementation. Under the proposed duai GST modei,  centrai GST  weli   state GST wili  levied  the taxable value   transaction  supply  goods and services. Both the centre and the state wili legislate, levy and administer the centrai GST and the state GST, respectively. Once implemented, GST wili create  single, unified Indian market and wili diminish the multiple layers  indirect taxation that prevaii  India  present. GST  also seen   reform  administration  indirect taxation and wili definitely  favourable for trade. Considering the various issues pending for discussion between State and Centrai government, GST  not expected   roli out before Aprii 2o14. Stamp duty Stamp duty  levied  various rates  documents such  bills  exchange, promissory notes, insurance policies, contracts effecting transfer  shares, debentures and conveyances for transfer  immovable property. Research and development cess Research and redevelopment cess    levied  ali payments made for the import  technology. The term technology includes import  designs, drawings, publications and services  technicai personnei.  PwCMergers Acquisitions Chapter  Among the emerging economies, India has witnessed decent activity  mergers and acquisitions   both cross border and domestic, with  remarkable feature  India being  the buyer side quite frequently  recent years. While the boom  the   space looks quite far back  the past, the Indian economy maintained  respectable volume  activity  2o12. Indian policymakers tried their best  prop  the   space  the economy with liberai tax laws, exchange controi regulations and  more transparent environment driven  the objective  protecting the investor  large. Part : Indian   framework The Indian regulatory framework broadly facilitates the acquisition  hive-off through multiple legai modes. While ali  them may achieve similar objectives, each one  different from the other  tax outgo parameters  weli  the regulatory ease  implementing the deai. The following are the most popular modes  acquisition: Share acquisition Business acquisition through asset purchase: Assets itemised sale  business slump sale Amalgamations and -mergers Share acquisition Implications for the seller Transfer  shares  Indian companies  taxable  capitai gains  India, subject  benefits under the applicable DTAA,  any. Furthermore, taxability  dependent  whether the subject shares are listed  unlisted  explained below: Listed shares Long-term capitai gains LTCG . . gains resulting from shares held for more than  months, are exempt from tax  sale    recognised stock exchange  India.  case the transaction  carried off the stock exchange, gains are taxed   without indexation benefits   with indexation benefits, whichever  beneficiai Short-term capitai gains STCG are taxed  , plus surcharges  sale    recognised stock exchange  India.  case the transaction  carried off the stock exchange,   taxable similar  the unlisted shares Unlisted shares LTCG  taxed   without indexation benefits for non- residents and  for residents, plus surcharges STCG  taxed   for non-resident companies and  for resident companies, plus surcharges Indian laws have been recently amended  bring under its net the indirect transfer  assets  India through  share  right transfer outside India. Therefore,  share transfer outside the country may  taxable  India,  such  foreign company derives its value substantially from assets located  India    results  the transfer  rights  relation  the management  controi   Indian company. Implications for the buyer The acquisition  shares   listed company requires compliance with the Takeover Code.  open offer  required for the acquisition    more  voting power   listed company The transfer  shares  subject  stamp duty  .   the value  shares transferred. However,  stamp duty may  payable  such shares are held   electronic form Funding costs  the form  the interest burden   loan applied for the acquisition  shares may not  tax-deductible  the corresponding dividend income wili  exempt from tax  the hands  shareholders  case the corporate buyer receives shares   closely-held company  less than their fair market value FMV, the difference between the FMV and the sale consideration with respect  such shares  taxable  the hands  the buyer  the applicable corporate tax rate Withholding tax The buyer including non-residents  required  withhold the applicable taxes resulting from the capitai gains  the hands  the non-resident seller. Practically, this requires the buyer  obtain the India tax registration numbers  withholding  tax  required  case  acquisition  shares from Indian residents Thin capitalisation rules Indian companies can  funded   mix  debt, equity and convertible instruments. There are  prescribed guidelines with respect  the acceptable debt-equity ratios under taxation law Preservation and carry-forward  tax losses There   impact  carrying forward  tax losses  transfer  shares   listed company Transfer  shares  non-listed companies beyond , shali dis-entitle the company from carrying forward previous years business losses  impact  transfer  shares  carrying forward unabsorbed depreciation allowance, irrespective  the Indian company  listing status Business acquisition through asset purchase  the Indian context, businesses can also  acquired through asset purchase.  case  the purchase modei, the buyer may cherry-pick assets which   she prefers and leave the liabilities  the seller entity itself.  against the asset purchase modei, businesses can also  acquired through  slump sale modei wherein the buyer acquires the entire business undertaking inclusive  related assets and liabilities for  lumpsum consideration. Asset purchase modei Implications for the seller Computation  gains  done with respect  each asset and this  taxable  short-  long-term capitai gains, depending  the period  holding such assets. The sale  depreciable Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 29assets always results  short-term capitai gains Capitai gains are determined  reducing the acquisition cost  assets from sales consideration.  case  long-term capitai gains, the acquisition cost  indexed based  the cost inflation index The seller  liable  charge VAT  sales tax  the transfer  movable property  specified rates  case  the asset purchase modei The cost  acquisition  self-generated intangible assets such  goodwili wili  considered  nii for the purpose  calculating capitai gains  case the asset purchase modei involves the transfer  immovable property, the sale consideration  benchmarked  minimum value determined  stamp taxes authorities, for the limited purpose  calculating capitai gains tax Implications for the buyer The buyer  liable for stamp duty  the transfer  immovable property  the rate applicable  the concerned state The buyer  also liable for stamp duty  movable property  the applicable rate. However, this  generally minimised through innovations  physicai delivery  both Business transfer modei Implications for the seller Capitai gains are determined  reducing the net worth  business undertaking from sales consideration which shali  determined   prescribed manner Capitai gains are taxable  long-term capitai gains  case the business undertaking  held for more than three years.  indexation benefit  available  case  slump sale  undertaking. Taxable   plus surcharge  long term else taxable   plus surcharge  short term Business transfer also known  Slump sale  India  typically not subject  VAT  sales tax Implications for the buyer  case   slump sale, lumpsum purchase consideration  allocated  various assets based   valuation report and hence the purchase  assets such  building, plant and specified intangible assets for use  business  entitled  increased depreciation allowance The buyer  liable for stamp duty  the transfer  business undertaking  the rate applicable  the concerned state Funding costs Interest  loan taken for the acquisition  assets  business undertaking through slump sale  generally tax-deductible, subject  certain prescribed rules. Amalgamations and -mergers  some situations the acquired entity can  integrated into the buyer group through amalgamation  -merger. While some variants  the process  amalgamation  -merger exist,  involves  court process. Such amalgamation  -merger can  tax neutrai for the parties involved subject  achieving certain prescribed conditions. Amalgamation  merger  amalgamation refers  the merger  one  more companies into another through  court process. Conditions   satisfied  claim tax exemption are  follows: Ali the assets and liabilities  the transferor entity should  transferred  the transferee entity Shareholders holding  least   shares  value  transferor company  become shareholders  the transferee company -mergers  -merger refers  the transfer  division   undertaking   part thereof, from one company into another through  court process. Conditions   satisfied  claim tax exemption are  follows: Ali the assets and liabilities  the relevant undertaking  the transferor company should  transferred  the resulting company The transfer  such business undertaking    going concern basis Consideration for  -merger settled through the issue  shares  the shareholders  the -merged company should  done   proportionate basis Shareholders holding  least   shares  value   -merged company are  become shareholders  the resulting company Carrying forward  accumulated loss and unabsorbed depreciation Amalgamation Accumulated loss  unabsorbed depreciation   amalgamating company running  industriai undertaking defined under the law   carried forward  the amalgamated company Specified conditions laid down like continuance  business, holding  assets, etc. -merger Accumulated loss  unabsorbed depreciation directly related  the undertaking being demerged  transferrable Proportionate common losses are also transferable Other matters Amalgamations and -mergers normally attract stamp duty  varying rates. Such rates are derived from the laws  the state involved Stock exchange, high court and other regulatory clearances are required for amalgamations  -mergers.  more robust process has been recently notified for obtaining approvai from the stock exchanges and theSEBI, which can  time consuming, especially  timelines are water tight  PwCPart : Inbound investments  the first stage, any investment  India  governed  the Indian Exchange Controi Regulations which are administered  the RBI. The RBI has issued  Foreign Direct Investment Policy which requires the prior approvai from the Ministry  Finance  some cases and also permits the investments  India without any approvai subject  certain sectorai and generai conditions. Most  the investments  India are permitted without any prior approvai  RBI subject  satisfying certain conditions.   broad basis, Indian policymakers have been encouraging the green field  weli  brown field investments  India and there are minimai approvai requirements  generai sectors. Few sectors like telecom, single  multi brand retaii, defence, aerospace and banking may require approvals from respective ministries.   tax front, there are numerous benefits given  any new investment  India. For instance, purchase  additionai plant and machinery has been allowed  increased depreciation allowance. Also, establishing units  speciai economic zones entails tax holidays for  financiai years beginning with the year  which the operations commenced. Part III: Profit and capitai repatriation Apart from payment towards various services provided  the parent company, funds can also  repatriated through distribution  dividend, repurchase buy-back  shares  capitai reduction  the Indian company. Dividend  attracts DDT   plus surcharges and  payable  the company paying the dividend  case the dividend  distributed  the subsidiary and such  subsidiary has paid DDT  the dividend declared  its holding company, then such  company  eligible  take the credit  DDT paid  the subsidiary company when distributing dividend  its shareholders Dividend  exempt from tax  the hands  shareholders and accordingly, there   withholding tax  dividend payments  which DDT has been paid  the company Companies distributing dividend have  comply with the transfer  reserve rules under the Companies Act and  prescribed minimum depreciation allowance  the books  accounts Since the dividend distribution tax   unilaterai levy  company and hence there remains ambiguity with respect  credit  such taxes  the parent country. Share buy-back  new tax regime has been introduced  tax the share buy-back transactions effected  unlisted companies, effective from  June 2o13 Under the new regime, difference between the share buy-back price and the amount received  the company for the corresponding shares,  taxable  the rate   plus surcharges New regime  the share buy-back  taxed, which  also  unilaterai levy  company and hence there remains ambiguity with respect  credit  such taxes  the parent country Capitai reduction Requires the approvai  the high court The amount  distribution  the capitai reduction  deemed   dividend  the extent  accumulated profits  the company. The balance distribution, over and above the accumulated profits  taxable  capitai gains  the hands  the shareholders Residuary provisions like withholding  taxes, categorisation  capitai gains into long term and short term shali equally apply here Part : Outbound investments Regulation  overseas direct investment Outbound investment from India  invest   joint venture   wholly owned subsidiary abroad  allowed under automatic route except for financiai service sector for bonafide business purposes subject  maximum investment upto 1oo  the net worth  the Indian investor Presently, the existing regulations  not provide for outbound investments  the partnership firms  any other form  entity other than  company, without prior approvai  the RBI Tax  overseas investments Considering the tax regime  target countries coupled with nascent foreign tax credit regulations,  becomes imperative that investments are structured  optimise overseas tax efficiencies Essentiai tax considerations for the Indian outbound investor are offshore capitai gains optimisation, foreign tax reduction and optimisation  the Indian tax credits  repatriation  funds  India Dividend received from overseas companies  which  Indian company holds   more  the equity share capitai  taxable   plus surcharges  hands  the Indian company for  2o13-   gross basis Currently, India has not controlled foreign corporation CFC rules and there   Indian tax  foreign profits that remain with offshore subsidiaries. The government has proposed  introduce CFC regulations  the proposed DTC, yet  become  law Outbound structuring   important  have  robust outbound structure which  flexible, optimises globai tax cost, has the ability  bring  new investors and repatriate  deploy funds   tax efficient way Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 31Transfer Pricing  IndiaChapter   separate code  transfer pricing  under sections   92F  the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 the Act covers intra-group transactions and  applicable from  Aprii 2oo1. The basic intent  these  provisions   avoid the shifting  profits from India  offshore jurisdictions. Since the introduction  the code, transfer pricing has become  important internationai tax issue affecting multinationai enterprises operating  India. Broadly based  the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OECD Guidelines, these regulations describe the various transfer pricing methods and impose extensive annuai transfer pricing documentation requirements. Transfer pricing legislation The Indian transfer pricing code provides that the price  any internationai transactions between associated enterprises AEs    computed with regard  the arm  length principle. Effective from  2o12-, the  provisions have been extended  specified domestic transactions  weli. However, the  legislation  not applicable when the computation  the arm  length price ALP has the effect  reducing the income chargeable  tax  increase the losses  India. This  aligned with the legislative intent  protect the Indian tax base. Transactions covered The term internationai transaction has been defined  indicate  transaction between two  more AEs involving the sale, purchase  lease  tangible  intangible property, provision  services, cost-sharing arrangements, various modes  capitai debt financing, guarantees, business -structuring  -organisation transactions  any other transaction having  bearing  the profits, income, losses  assets  such enterprises. The AEs can  either two non-residents   resident and  non-resident.  permanent establishment    foreign enterprise also qualifies   . Accordingly, transactions between  foreign enterprise and its Indian  are within the ambit  the code. Associated enterprises The relationship  AEs covers direct and indirect participation  the management, controi  capitai   enterprise  another.  also covers situations  which the same person directly  indirectly participates  the management, controi  capitai  both the enterprises. Based  the following parameters, two enterprises would  deemed  AEs:  direct  indirect holding    more voting power   enterprise  the other enterprise   both the enterprises  the same person Advancing   loan,   enterprise, that constitutes   more  the totai book value  the assets  the borrowing enterprise Guarantee   enterprise for   more  totai borrowings  the other enterprise Appointment   enterprise  more than   the board  directors  one  more executive directors  the other enterprise  the appointment  specified directorships  both enterprises  the same person Dependence   enterprise  carrying  its business  the intellectuai property licensed    the other enterprise Purchase    more  raw materiai required   enterprise from the other enterprise  from any person specified  such other enterprise  prices and conditions influenced  the latter Sale  goods  articles manufactured   enterprise  another enterprise    person specified  such other enterprise  prices and conditions influenced  the latter Existence  any prescribed relationship  mutuai interest none prescribed tili date Further,  transaction between  enterprise and  third party may  deemed   between AEs  there exists  prior agreement  relation  such transaction between the third party and the    the terms  such transactions are determined  substance between the third party and the . Specified domestic transactions SDT From  2o12-, the  provisions have extended their scope  specified domestic transactions. The following domestic transactions have been specified for this purpose: Payment  related parties Transactions  tax holiday undertakings with other undertakings  the taxpayer4 This provision  applicable only  the aggregate value  such transaction exceeds  million INR  the relevant tax year. Arm  length principle and pricing methodologies The following methods have been prescribed for the determination  the ALP: Comparable uncontrolled price CUP method Resale price method RPM Cost plus method CPM Profit split method PSM Transactionai net margin method TNMM Such other methods  may  prescribed . Covers expenditure  respect  which payment has been made    made   person referred   section 4oA   . Transactions covered  sections 8oA, -  and -  and Chapter - and section 1oAA  the Act. . The CBDT has for  2o11- onwards notified the other method.  has been  escribed  any method which takes into account the price charged  paid  would have been charged  paid for  same  similar uncontrolled transaction, with  bet ween non-AEs, under similar circumstances.  PwCNo particular method has been accorded  preference over the other. The most appropriate method for  particular transaction wili need   determined according  the nature and class  that transaction  associated persons, and dependent  functions performed  such persons  weli  other relevant factors. The legislation requires  taxpayer  determine  ALP for internationai transactions. . The Indian legislation does not recognise the concept  arm  length range but requires the determination   single ALP, which  computed  the basis  arithmetic mean  comparable prices. Further the law provides flexibility  ALP  allowing variance  around   the transaction value. However for  2o11- the centrai government has removed  and wili notify the variance percentage but for the  2o12- and onwards the variance percentage has been capped  . Further, the centrai government has now issued  notification  2o12-, which specifies the tolerance band    for wholesale traders and   ali other cases. There  however,  clarification provided  the notification   which taxpayers wili  classified  wholesale traders.   also   noted that prior   2oo9 - 2o1o, the flexibility   was allowed around the ALP and not the transaction value. The law   stood before  2oo9-2o1o, resulted   tax controversy  availability  the benefit     standard deduction  computing the ALP. Therefore, the Finance Act 2o12 has further clarified that the law had never intended  allow any standard deduction for computing the arm  length price. Safe harbour provisions The Centrai Board  Direct Taxes CBDT has notified the Safe Harbour  Rules  September , 2o13. These rules specify the circumstances  which the tax authorities wili accept the ALP  declared   taxpayer, without detailed analysis. The basic intention behind the introduction  these rules   reduce the tax litigation  determining the transfer prices  internationai transactions. The below table provides  snapshot  the  Rules: However,   pertinent  note that  comparability adjustments are permitted and the benefit  tolerance band -   also not available  taxpayers opting for  provisions. Also  taxpayer opting for Safe Harbour rules would not  entitled  invoke Mutuai Agreement Procedure MAP proceedings. Advance pricing agreements Recently the provisions relating  advance pricing agreement APA has been introduced which are effective from  July 2o12.  APA   agreement between the taxpayer and the tax authorities for the upfront determination  the arm  length price and pricing methodology which  acceptable  the revenue   related party transaction. Essentially, the taxpayers seek  APA  determine the arm  length price   transaction upfront, thereby ascertaining their tax liability from the transaction and consequently mitigating tax litigation   later stage. The CBDT, with the approvai  the centrai government, has been empowered  enter into  APA with any taxpayer, who  undertaking internationai transactions,  determine the ALP  specify the manner  which ALP shali  determined. The APA  entered shali  binding  the taxpayer and the tax authorities with respect  the transaction covered under the agreement. Such  agreement shali  valid for  period not exceeding five years. The CBDT notified Advance Pricing Agreement Scheme Rules 1oF  1oT  Income Tax Rules, 1962   August 2o12 covering detailed rules and procedures including necessary forms for application and administration  the APAs. Documentation and report requirements Taxpayers are annually required  maintain  set  extensive information and documents related  internationai transactions undertaken with AEs.  mentioned above, the transfer pricing provisions are applicable  specified domestic transactions  weli. Therefore, the taxpayer  also required  maintain the prescribed documentation  respect  such transaction effective from  2o12-. Eligible Internationai Transaction Proposed Safe Harbour Software Development services  annuai transaction value :   INR  billion, operating margin    more, more than INR  billion, operating margin    moreInformation Technology enabled services Knowledge Process Outsourcing KPO Services Operating margin    more Advancing  intra-group loans  Indian companies  their wholly owned subsidiariesThe interest rate  equai   greater than the base rate  State Bank  India   3oth June  the relevant previous year plus: 15o basis points Loan does not exceed INR 5oo million 3oo basis points Loan exceeds INR 5oo million Provision  corporate guarantees  Indian companies  their wholly owned subsidiariesThe commission  fee :  . .  more  the guaranteed amount  case the amount guaranteed    INR  billion, and .   more . .  the guaranteed amount  the amount guaranteed exceeds INR  billion, provided the credit rating  the    adequate  highest safety Contract researchand development   services with insignificant risksSoftware Development - operating margin    moreGeneric Pharmaceuticai drugs - operating margin    more Manufacture and export  auto components Core auto-components - operating margin    moreNon-core auto-components - operating margin  .   more Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 33The code prescribes detailed information and documentation that the taxpayer has  maintain for demonstrating that the price complies with the arm  length principle. Ali such information  documents should  contemporaneous and  place  the due date for filing the return  income . .  November following the close  relevant tax year. The prescribed documents must  maintained for  period  eight years from the end  the relevant tax year and should  updated annually   ongoing basis. Taxpayers having aggregate value  internationai transactions below  million INR are relieved from maintaining the prescribed documentation. However, even  these cases,   imperative that documentation  adequate  substantiate the ALP  internationai transactions. The documentation requirements are also applicable  the foreign companies having income taxable  India. Accountant  report   mandatory for ali taxpayers,  obtain  independent accountant  report with respect  ali internationai transactions between AEs. The report has   furnished  the due date  the tax return filing . .   before  November for corporate entities having internationai transactions. Effective from  2o12-, SDT are also required   reported  the accountant  report under Part   the recently modified Form 3CEB format along with the internationai transactions entered into with the AEs. The accountant  report from  2o12- and onwards  required   filed electronically.  requires the accountant  give  opinion  the proper maintenance  prescribed documents and information  the taxpayer. Additionally, the accountant  required  certify the true and correct nature   extensive list  prescribed particulars  Form  CEB. Particulars Penalty Failure  maintain the prescribed information  document2  transaction value Maintains  furnishes any incorrect, information  documents2  transaction value Failure  report any internationai transaction which  required   reported2  transaction value Adjustment  taxpayer  income 1oo  3oo  thetotai tax adjustment amount Failure  furnish accountant  report 1oo, ooo INRBurden  proof The burden  proving the arm  length nature   transaction primarily lies with the taxpayer. During audit proceedings,  the tax authorities,  the basis  materiai, information  documents  their possession, are  the opinion that the ALP was not applied  the transaction  the taxpayer did not maintain  produce adequate and correct documents, information, data, the tax officer may readjust  -compute the price used  the transaction after giving the opportunity  being heard  the tax payer. Penalties The following penalties have been prescribed for default  compliance with the provisions  the transfer pricing code:  PwCSpeciai Economic Zones  IndiaAnnexure  The objectives  SEZs include making available goods and services free  taxes and duties supported  integrated infrastructure for export production, quick approvai mechanisms, and  package  incentives  attract foreign and domestic investments for promoting exports. Ministry  Commerce and Industry, Government  India  SEZ   specifically delineated, duty-free area notified  such  the Ministry  Commerce and Industry under the Speciai Economic Zones Act, 2oo5 SEZ Act. The zone  considered   outside the customs territory  India for the purposes  carrying out authorised activities.  SEZ  deemed    port, ICD, land station and land customs station under the provision  the Customs Act, 1962. The SEZ Act, 2oo5 and SEZ Rules, 2oo6, which came into force with effect from  February 2oo6 govern the development  SEZs. The SEZ Act provides the umbrella legai framework for ali important legai and regulatory aspects  SEZ development  weli  for units operating  these SEZs.  important salient feature  the SEZ Act  that  has  overriding effect over other laws. The scope  the SEZ Act includes the following: Establishment  SEZs and units Fiscai regime for developers and units Requirements, obligations and entitlements Single-window clearance mechanism Granting  licence  industriai undertakings   established   SEZ Establishment  administrative authority for SEZs set   the Government  India Speciai courts and single enforcement agency  ensure speedy trials According  the Ministry  Commerce and Industry, SEZs can  set   private developers, centrai  state Governments,  jointly  any two  more  the above  contiguous, vacant land. Amendments  SEZ Rules, 2oo6 The Department  Commerce amended the SEZ Rules   Aprii 2o13 and announced  series  measures  the annuai supplement 2o13-  Foreign Trade Policy 2oo9-. Key changes proposed include reduction  minimum land area requirements for multi-product and sector-specific SEZs, doing away with minimum area requirements for  ITeS SEZs, graded scale for minimum land area criteria, sector broad-banding, issues  vacancy  land and exit policy for SEZ units. The SEZ Rules, 2oo6 the Rules were amended very recently,   August 2o13. The key amendments carried out  the SEZ Rules were: Expansion  the definition   sector  addition   provison; Reduction  minimum contiguous land area requirement  half; Allowing addition   sector   sector-specific SEZ   service   port airport subject  higher contiguous land parcei being available; extending duty benefits  cases where additions are proposed  existing non-operationai structures; and introduction  new Rule 74A permitting transferring ownership  SEZ unit assets subject   few conditions. Fiscai benefits  the developer  -developer Income tax incentives Hundred per cent tax deduction for  years out   years, beginning with the year  which the SEZ  notified  the Government Exemption from dividend distribution tax discontinued with effect from  June 2o11 Exemption from minimum alternate tax discontinued from  2o11-. Accordingly, the SEZ developer  -developer wili henceforth  required  pay MAT. Indirect tax incentives Exemption from customs duty  import  capitai goods and raw materiai into the SEZ for authorized operations Exemption from excise duty  locai procurement  capitai goods and raw materials Exemption from CST  inter-state purchases subject  submission  statutory declaration Form  Exemption from payment  service tax  the input services wholly consumed  the SEZ unit for authorised operations and refund mechanism for service tax paid wholly  partially consumed outside the SEZ for authorised operations.  addition, goods sold from DTA units  the SEZ unit wili attain the status  physicai exports.  light  this, the sale  goods   SEZ unit wili  regarded  exports and the DTA unit wili  eligible for export benefits: Exemption from ADC  lieu  sales tax  VAT  goods supplied   SEZ unit Exemption from VAT  per VAT legislation Exemption from payment  stamp duty  per state Government policy Who should set   SEZ unit Export-oriented entrepreneurs, manufacturers and service providers including  and ITeS providers, BPOs, contract manufacturers, etc. have huge growth potentiai  Indian SEZs. Electronic hardware, software manufacturers and telecom equipment manufacturers suppliers can also set  units  SEZs for supply  the domestic market. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 35FDI policy Hundred per cent FDI  permitted under the automatic route for SEZ development. For units  SEZs, the FDI policy  the Government  India wili apply. Approvai  units proposing  avaii FDI  granted  the Board  Approvals, Ministry  Commerce and Industry  line with the FDI policy.  separate approvai  required from FIPB.  minimum export obligation There   obligation  units  export goods  services from  SEZ unit However, SEZ units have   positive net foreign exchange earners  the end  five years calculated cumulatively There   limit  DTA sales provided fuli import duty  paid The supply   hardware, software and telecom equipment  domestic markets,  weli  the supply  goods and services  other SEZ, EOU and STPI units are counted towards export earnings Fiscai benefits   SEZ unit Fifteen-year graded income-tax deduction  export profits beginning with the year  which the unit begins  manufacture, produce  provide services: Hundred per cent for the initiai five years, fifty percent for the next five years and   fifty percent for the remaining five years, equivalent  profits ploughed back for -investment Tax deduction only for physicai exports Exemption from MAT has been discontinued with effect from  2o11-. Accordingly, SEZ units wili henceforth  required  pay MAT. Indirect tax benefits are similar  those applicable   SEZ developer -developer Exemption from payment  electricity duty Exemption from payment  stamp duty  per state Government policy Liberai exchange controls norms Hundred per cent export earnings maintainable  foreign exchange  speciai foreign currency account with minimai restrictions  business payments outside India Period for export realization   months from the date  export Branches  foreign company  eligible for carrying out manufacturing activities  SEZ Offshore banking units  offshore banking unit   branch   bank  India located  the SEZ with the permission  the RBI. Offshore banking units provide cheaper finance  internationai rates  units  SEZs. Banks setting  offshore banking units  SEZs are entitled  tax deduction beginning with the year  which they obtain requisite approvals  hundred percent for the first five years and fifty percent for the next five years.  similar deduction  available  units   Internationai financiai services centre. Free trade and warehousing zone FTWZ FTWZ   speciai category  the SEZ governed  the SEZ Act, 2oo5 and SEZ Rules, 2oo6, mainly for trading, warehousing and other related activities thereto   used  internationai trading hubs Deemed    foreign territory  key link  logistic and globai supply chains, servicing both India and the globe Fiscai benefits such  customs duty deferment: Imported goods can  stored for five years without payment  customs duty, interest  penalty Administrative benefits such  reduction  customs clearance time, transportation facility, etc. Support facilities such  banking and information system for cargo tracking High quality infrastructure How  set   FTWZ Trading unit  company can become  trading unit   FTWZ for the purposes  trading and warehousing and other authorised operations. Wili require  obtain requisite approvai from the jurisdictionai Development Commissioner Unit Approvai Committee for setting   unit   FTWZ. Service unit  company can avaii the services   third party which   unit   FTWZ for trading and warehousing and other authorised operations. Trading entities, importers and exporters, 3PLs, CHAs, freight forwarders, shipping lines, manufacturers, etc. can become units   FTWZ. Units are required  execute  bond-cum-legai undertaking for import and warehousing  goods inside the FTWZ. Activities permitted   FTWZ The following activities are permitted   FTWZ: Unit can carry FTWZ  DTA and DTA  FTWZ transactions Unit can hold goods  account   foreign   DTA supplier and buyer Warehousing can  undertaken  behalf  foreign  domestic clients Can carry out trading, with  without labeling Can carry out packaging and repacking without any processing -sale, -invoice  -export  goods Other value optimisation services Obligations   FTWZ unit Ali transactions are required   done  only convertible foreign currency  unit has    positive net foreign exchange NFE earner over five years.  unit has  comply with the NFE  PwCrequirement  stipulated  the SEZ Rules. There   NFE obligation  clients  service units   FTWZ The value  FOC imports are   taken  foreign outflow The following are counted toward the inflow  foreign exchange earnings Supplies need   made  bonded warehouses where payment  received  foreign exchange Goods need   supplied against free foreign exchange Tax incentives Customs duty  exempt when goods are imported into the FTWZ for authorised operations. Customs duty becomes payable  the time  clearance  goods into DTA customs duty payable  quantity cleared into DTA and not  the fuli quantity received into FTWZ. Therefore, the customs duty can  deferred  importing the goods into FTWZ Inbound taxable services  weli  those performed inside the FTWZ for use  authorised operations are exempt from service tax. Similarly, taxable services  relation  the transportation  goods from port  FTWZ  from one FTWZ  another  also exempt  centrai excise duty  leviable inside the FTWZ Goods procured from the DTA for authorised operations are exempt from the levy  tax under centrai sales tax Stamp duty  exempt  any instrument executed  connection with the carrying out  the purposes  the FTWZ Trading profit earned  the -export  imported goods from the FTWZ  exempt from income tax similar  the SEZ unit Nationai Policy  Electronics, 2o12 The Govt.  India has rolled out the Nationai Policy  Electronics, 2o12 under which  has formulated  incentives scheme viz. Modified Speciai Incentive Package Scheme -SIPS  the Scheme for attracting investments  the Electronics Systems Design and Manufacturing ESDM sector. Applicability The scheme  applicable  new and existing ESDM units desirous  making investments and  carrying out substantiai expansion modernization  diversification for design and manufacturing  electronic products. The units should  located  notified electronic manufacturing clusters whether Greenfield  brownfield clusters.   date,  verticals have been notified under -SIPS, which are eligible for incentives and covers electronic products, nano-electronic products, telecom products, intermediates and electronic manufacturing services covering ali stages  value chain. Available incentives The -SIPS scheme offers two incentives  ESDM units  the nature  capitai subsidy and fiscai incentives. The capitai incentives vary depending  the quantum  investment made, classification  products, location  the project etc. The fiscai incentives include exemption from customs duty, reimbursement  excise CVD, service tax etc. The State levei incentives are granted over and above these. Disbursement  incentives The incentives would  available for investments made  the project within  period   years. Incentives against capex would  released after the end  the financiai year  which the totai investments exceed the threshold value and  annuai basis thereafter. Reimbursement  Centrai taxes duties actually paid  available after the end  the financiai year  which the unit commences production and   annuai basis thereafter. Approvai Procedure  order  avaii the benefits under the Scheme,  ESDM unit  required  obtain the prior approvai  the Department  Electronics and Information Technology DeiTY. The project can  carried out  multiple phases but the procedure for approvai  similar  ali. Validity  the scheme The application process  open for  period   years from the date  the notification . . upto July , 2o15 for receiving applications. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 37Tax Rates under Double Taxation Avoidance AgreementsAnnexure  Name  the country Interest Dividend Royalty Austria     Armenia     Australia    ;   other cases  ;   other cases Albania Government press release dated  January 2oo9 Bangladesh   ;   other cases   specific provision  Belarus   ;   other cases   Belgium  ;   other cases      Botswana  .  ;  other cases    Brazii     royalty arises from trademarks;   other casesNo specific provision  Bulgaria     royalty relates  copyrights  literary, artistic  scientific work;   other cases1o Canada   ;  other cases   ;  other cases   ;  other cases  Cyprus   ;  other cases   including fee for included services   for technicai fees  China     Czech Republic     Denmark  ;   other cases  ;   other cases   Ethiopia refer note   .    Estonia     Finland     France     Germany     Georgia     Hungary         Iceland     Indonesia   ;   other cases   specific provision  Ireland     Israei     Italy refer  note    ;  other cases    Japan     Kazakhstan     Kenya    .  for manageriai, technicai, professionai  consultancy fees Kuwait     Republic  Korea  ;   other cases  ;   other cases   Kyrgyz Republic     Libya Arab Jamahriya14    specific provision  Grand Duchy  Luxembourg1o    Malaysia      PwCName  the country Interest Dividend Royalty Malta   ;  other cases   including fee for included services    fee for technicai, manageriai and consultancy services  Mauritius   ;  other cases    specific provision  Mongolia     Montenegro   ;  other cases    Morocco     Mozambique  .    specific provision  Myanmar     specific provision  Namibia     Nepai  ;  other cases   ;  other cases    specific provision  Netherlands         New Zealand     Norway   ;  other cases      Oman   ;  other cases .    Philippines  ;  other cases   ;  other cases    specific provision  Poland   .  .  Qatar   ;  other cases    Portugai   ;   other cases   Romania   ;  other cases  .  .  Russian Federation     Saudi Arabia     specific provision  Serbia   ,  other cases    Singapore  ;  other cases   ;  other cases    South Africa     Sudan     Slovenia   ;  other cases    Switzerland     Syrian Arab Republic   ,  other cases    specific provision,  Tajikistan   ,  other cases    specific provision,  Tanzania    ;  other cases     management and professionai fees Thailand  ,  other cases    ;       specific provision  Trinidad and Tobago     Turkey  ;  other cases     Turkmenistan     Uganda     Ukraine   ;  other cases    United Arab Emirates5 ;  other cases .     specific provision  United Arab Republic Egypt  specific provision   specific provision   specific provision   specific provision  United Kingdom  ;  other cases    ;  other cases   ;  other cases  Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 39Name  the country Interest Dividend Royalty United States  America1o    Uruguay PIB Ministry  Finance release dated  Septem- ber 2o11. Treaty yet   notified15 ;  other cases  .  .  Vietnam     Zambia   ;  other cases     manageriai and Consultancy fees Notes:  The treaty tax rates  dividends are not relevant  case  dividend paid   Indian company, because under the current Indian tax legislation, dividend distribution  such companies  exempt from income tax  the hands  the recipient.  This  applicable for use  industriai, scientific  commerciai equipment.  This  applicable  the beneficiai owner   company which holds  least   the capitai  the company paying the dividend.  This  applicable  the beneficiai owner   company which owns   the capitai  the company paying the dividend.   the absence   specific provision,  may  treated  business profits under respective treaties.  The Most Favoured Nation clause  applicable. The protocoi  the treaty limits the scope and rate  taxation  that specified  similar articles  the treaties signed subsequently  India with other OECD nations.   most  the treaties the interest attributable  financing  exports, imports and loans granted  specified institutions  subject  nii  lower withholding tax rates.  This  applicable  the company paying the dividend  engaged   industriai undertaking.  This  applicable   the beneficiai owner   company which holds  least   the shares  the company paying the dividend.  This  applicable  the recipient   company owning  least   the capitai during the period  six months before date  payment.  This  applicable  paid   loan granted   bank  financiai institution.  The tax rate under domestic tax laws   plus surcharge ; since education cess    levied, the effective tax rate  . o12 applicable for payments under the agreements entered prior   June 2oo5 but after  May 1997.  The prescribed tax rate for royalty and fees for technicai services under domestic tax laws   plus surcharge  and education cess  ,  the effective tax rate  . 5o6. The rate would apply for payments under the agreement entered   after  June 2oo5.  This  applicable  interest  received   bank  financiai institution.  The protocoi amending the DTAA with Italy January 2oo6 stipulates the rate   for Dividend, Interest, Royalty and Fee for Technicai Services   per  Government Press Release, under  agreement signed   May 2o11 the maximum rate  tax   charged  the country  source wili not exceed  two-tier     the case  dividends and   the case  interest and royalties. This  yet   notified.  There   separate clause for technicai fees and fee for included services under the treaty.   per  Government press release,  agreement was signed   May 2o11, but   yet   notified.  PwCDirect Taxes CodeAnnexure    August 2oo9, the Indian Government released the draft DTC for public debate. The objective   moderate the tax rates and simplify tax laws. Ali direct taxes including wealth and income tax wili  brought under one code. Public and stakeholder feedback  the proposals outlined  the draft were analysed  the Government, and suggestions for amendments received from public, business associations and other bodies were taken into account.  June 2o1o,  revised discussion paper addressing the major issues was released and further, feedbacks were received. The DTC Bili, 2o1o, which addressed the issues and concerns raised  various stakeholders, was tabled  Parliament   August 2o1o. The Bili was then referred   Parliamentary Standing Committee  Finance, which prepared  report providing its recommendations after collating the representations made  stakeholders with the response  the Ministry  Finance. The report was released  March 2o12. The response  the Ministry and the recommendations  the Committee provide clarity and are indicative  the approach that can  expected  the finai version  the DTC   released.  summary  significant proposals  the DTC follows: Commencement The DTC was earlier proposed   effective from  Aprii 2o13  provide the time  companies  understand the provisions, engage   dialogue with the Indian Government and, more importantly, restructure their operations  they switch over  taxation under the DTC. Also, this gives time  the Government  adapt its systems  accept and audit additionai new compliance requirements imposed  taxpayers. Tax rates Tax rates for individuals  proposed  the DTC Bili 2o1o are   revised  follows: New income slab INR Tax Rate   2oo, ooo Nii 2oo, oo1 5oo, ooo  5oo, oo1 , ooo, ooo  Above , ooo, ooo   the case  resident senior citizens, INR 2oo, ooo may  read  INR 25o, ooo and INR 2oo, oo1  INR 25o, oo1. Partnership firms, associations  persons and bodies  individuals wili  taxed separately   unincorporated body   maximum marginai rate   without any threshold exemption limit Tax rate for companies both domestic and foreign  proposed   Domestic companies wili continue   liable  dividend distribution tax   Foreign companies wili  subject  branch profits tax   Minimum alternative tax MAT MAT  proposed   levied  book profits   MAT credit wili  available for set-off against normai tax liability for    consecutive financiai years immediately succeeding the year  which the credit becomes available Wealth tax The DTC proposes  levy wealth tax    net wealth over INR  crore. Ali taxpayers except non-profit organisations are liable  wealth tax. New categories  assets introduced for levying wealth tax are archaeologicai collections, drawings, paintings, sculptures  any other work  art, watches with  value  excess  INR , ooo and equity  preference shares held  controlled foreign companies CFC. Internationai taxation Transportation charges paid   non-resident   resident are taxable  also transportation charges paid  non-residents  non-residents  they are  respect  carriage   from  place  India Income arising from transfer  shares   foreign company  sought   taxed  India  assets  India held directly  indirectly  the company represent  least   the fair market value  ali the assets owned  the foreign company. The  test    applied  any time during the  months prior  the transfer The presumptive taxation scheme  continued with  change  the rates except  the case  non-residents engaged : The business  providing services  supplying plant and machinery  connection with prospecting for  extraction  production  minerai oii  naturai gas, wherein the rate wili  increased from   ; The operation  ships, wherein the rate wili  increased from .   ; and The operation  aircraft, wherein the rate wili  increased from    Definition  royalty has been expanded and withholding tax rate has been increased from   , both for royalty  weli  fees for technicai services Head office expenditure would  allowed  the extent  .   totai turnover  gross receipts  business  India Residency rules Companies having  place  effective management  India  any time  the year wili  considered residents  India. The place  effective management  defined  mean the following:  place where board  directors BoD  executive directors,  the case may , make their decisions,    case where the BoD routinely approves commerciai and strategic decisions made  the executive directors  officers, the place where such executive directors  officers perform their functions Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13  Separately, the CFC provisions are proposed   introduced   anti-avoidance measure. CFC provisions introduced with  view  tax passive income earned   foreign company directly  indirectly controlled   resident  India CFC means  foreign company which satisfy the following conditions: The foreign company  controlled  resident taxpayers- Controi define  mean one  more persons resident  India, individually  collectively, directly  indirectly, hold shares carrying not less than   the voting power  capitai  the company Such foreign entity   resident   country with  lower levei  taxation, . . the amount  tax payable  the foreign country  less than   the corresponding tax payable under the DTC The net profit earned  the CFC wili  attributed and not only the passive income  the resident taxpayer based  the percentage holding and for the period such percentages are held CFC provisions wili not  applicable  case the foreign company  listed   stock exchange   engaged  active trade  business subject  certain conditions   the specified income does not exceed INR .  million Where   more  the income   offshore entity  derived from the sale  goods  services  controlled corporations,  wili not  considered  having engaged  active trade  business The underlying foreign tax credit mechanism  not provided Treaty provisions vis--vis domestic tax law The provisions  the DTC  the double tax avoidance agreement, whichever  more beneficiai  the taxpayer shali apply, except  the following circumstances: When Generai Anti-Avoidance Rules GAAR provisions are invoked When CFC provisions are invoked When branch profit tax  levied Branch profit tax The concept  branch profits tax  proposed   introduced. Profits  Indian branches  foreign companies wili  additionally subjected  branch profits tax  . Branch profits tax  proposed   levied  income attributable directly  indirectly   permanent establishment   immovable property situated  India.   defined  the same way   the treaties and includes one day service , equipment  and insurance agent . Other significant proposals Applicable tax rates for payments  non-residents- ITAA Royalty and fee for technicai services rates  proposed   increased    gross basis Capitai gains are   taxable   Corporate tax rate would   Definitions  key terms   enlarged Fees for technicai services wili include consideration for development and transfer  design, drawing, plan  similar services Royalty wili include the consideration for use  right  use ship  aircraft and live coverage  any event Specified income wili  deemed  accrue  India even  payments are made outside India, services are being rendered outside India,  even  income has otherwise not accrued  India Domestic taxation Corporate tax DTC proposes the corporate tax rate    and also provides for unlimited carry-forward  business losses.   attempt  rationalise and simplify tax computation, the DTC proposes amendments  the basis  computation  business income from the current business profits with specified adjustments   income-expense modei prevalent  certain developed and other Association  Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN countries. Largely, DTC also maintains  status quo  dividend distribution tax DDT levy    the dividend declared  distributed. Computation Business income wili  computed based  the income-expense modei: Gross earnings XXXLess: Business expenditure Operating expenditure includes ali expenditure laid out for the purposes  the business XXX Permitted finance charges includes interest charges, finance charges, etc. XXX Capitai allowances includes depreciation, deferred revenue expenditure, etc. XXX Taxable income from business XXX Business assets wili  distinguished from investment assets. Business assets wili  further classified  business trading assets and business capitai assets 2oo weighted deduction for -house scientific   expenditure wili  extended  ali industries The remaining value  the block  business capitai assets where ali assets cease  exist wili continue   eligible for depreciation  PwC  the case   finance lease, the lessee would  eligible  claim capitai allowance Dividend distribution tax DDT rate wili  maintained  . Exemptions, deductions and new schemes Profit-based tax incentives are sought   discontinued and expenditure  investment-based incentive scheme wili  introduced and wili apply  the following businesses: Generation, transmission  distribution  power Developing  operating and maintaining Infrastructure facility  defined Operating and maintaining  hospitai  specified areas Processing, preservation and packaging  fruits and vegetables Laying and operating cross country naturai gas  crude  petroleum, pipeline distribution network including storage facilities Setting- and operating  cold chain facility Setting- and operating agriculturai warehouse facility Building and operating anywhere  India new hotei  two star  above category   after  Aprii 2o1o Building and operating anywhere  India  new hospitai with  least 1oo beds   after  Aprii 2o1o Developing and building  housing project under notified schemes  slum redevelopment  rehabilitation commencing   after  Aprii 2o1o Exploration and production  minerai oii  naturai gas Developing  SEZ and   unit established   SEZ Export based incentives  profit-based incentives are proposed   discontinued without affecting the tax payers currently enjoying such incentives, which wili  grandfathered. Tax holiday  proposed for infrastructure companies grandfathered for projects eligible untii  March 2o12. Also  tax holiday for SEZ developers grandfathered for projects notified untii  March 2o12. Tax benefits wili  allowed  SEZ units starting operations before  March 2o14. Capitai Gains  paradigm shift  taxation  capitai gains  proposed under the DTC. Ali capitai gains would  considered  income from ordinary sources and  taxable  normai rates  tax, removing the benefits  lower rates. However, fair market value substitution date  shifted   Aprii 2ooo. Cost  acquisition  deemed   nii for ali self-generated assets and where cost  assets cannot  determined Transfer  business capitai assets wili  taxed under the head business income. STT would continue and  capitai gains tax would  levied  the sale  equity shares   company  unit   equity oriented fund held for more than one year  STT  paid  the transfer Capitai gains tax would  payable only    the gains  case equity shares   company  unit   equity oriented fund are held for  period   one year,  STT  paid  the transfer. The cost  acquisition  assets acquired  retirement from unincorporated body would  prescribed Mergers and acquisitions Fuli value  consideration  case  transfer  land and building has been specified   the stamp duty value  ali cases,  against the provisions  the Income-tax Act whereby  revenue officer can refer the matter   valuation officer  determine the value  the land and building The Income-tax Act states that exemption  holding company  subsidiary transfers shali  withdrawn and the exempted gain wili  taxed  the year  transfer  originai asset  the conditions  exemption were violated. The DTC seeks  tax such exempted gain  the year  which the conditions are violated. Hence, the rigours  revising past years returns has been done away with The DTC narrows the definition  business reorganisation  include only reorganisation between residents The DTC specifically provides for the issue  equity shares  shareholders  the demerged company,  against the Income-tax Act which does not specify the nature  shares The DTC provides for  liberalised regime for carry forward  loss,  compared  the Income-tax Act The DTC provides for carrying forward the losses  the demerged unit upon satisfaction  the business-continuity test. The Income-tax Act does not contain such  condition  case  succession   sole proprietorship,   partnership firm,   company, the DTC provides for the carry forward  losses, subject  fulfilment  prescribed conditions. This was not facilitated under the Income-tax Act New provisions have been introduced  the DTC which expressly provide for the taxation  income for payments received  case  the retirement   participant, being  member   unincorporated body Slump sale Profit  slump sale wili  liable  tax under the head capitai gains. Individuai tax: Residency rules and taxability The separate category  resident but not ordinarily resident  proposed   done away with. Resident individuals would enjoy exemption  income sourced outside India for two consecutive financiai years . .  the financiai year  which the individuai becomes  resident and  the immediately succeeding financiai year  the individuai was  non-resident for nine years immediately preceding the financiai year  which   she becomes  resident. Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 43Financiai institutionai investors FIIs Income earned  FIIs would  taxed  capitai gains Payments made  FIIs   consideration for sale  listed securities shali not  subject  withholding tax Mutuai funds Distribution tax   would  levied  distribution  income   equity-oriented mutuai fund. Such income wili  exempt  the hands  the investors Income distributed  funds other than equity-oriented mutuai fund wili  taxable  the hands  the investors and shali not  subjected  levy  distribution tax Banking companies The deduction for amounts credited  provision for bad and doubtfui debts account would  restricted    aggregate average advances computed  the prescribed manner, subject  fulfilment  prescribed conditions. Insurance companies Profits  life insurance business shali  the profits determined  shareholders account subject  certain specified adjustments and shali  taxable    against .  earlier Profits  other insurance business shali  the profits disclosed  annuai accounts, subject  certain prescribed adjustments Insurance  reinsurance premium received   non-resident entity for covering risk  India shali  taxable  the rate   Tax rate   has been proposed  the amount  income distributed   life insurance company  the policyholders   approved equity oriented life insurance scheme. This tax seems   targeted towards ULIP products Trust taxation Trust taxation provisions have been simplified. Differentiai and complex tax regime for determinate and indeterminate trusts  proposed   removed Provisions relating  taxation  business income  trust  maximum marginai rate have been dropped Venture capitai funds VCF and venture capitai company VCC The DTC retains the existing tax regime applicable  VCF and VCC, . . only  respect  the investments  VCF  VCC  the venture capitai undertaking. The venture capitai undertaking  permitted  carry  business  nine specified sectors  weli   any other business  may  prescribed later The income  VCF  VCC would  exempt and taxable  the hands  the investor  the VCF  VCC  the manner  which  was received  PwCGoverning lawsAnnexure  Name  the country Interest Arbitration Reconciliation Act, 1996 Relates  alternate redressai  disputes Centrai Excise Act, 1944 Governs duty levied  the manufacture  production  goods  India Centrai Sales Tax, 1956 Governs the levy  tax  ali inter-state sales  India Companies Act, 1956 Governs ali corporate bodies  India Competition Act, 2oo2 Ensures free and fair competition  the Indian market Consumer Protection Act, 1986 Protects consumers from unscrupulous traders and manufacturers Customs Act, 1962 Deals with import and export regulations Customs Tariff Act, 1975 Creates  uniform commodity classification code based  the globally adopted harmonised system  nomenclature for use  ali internationai trade- related transactions Direct Taxes Code Bili, 2o1o Aims  moderate tax rates and simplify tax laws. Ali direct taxes including wealth tax and income tax wili  brought under one bili. Environment Protection Act, 1986 Provides  framework for obtaining environmentai clearances Act, 1986 Factories Act, 1948 Regulates labour  factories Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 Regulates foreign exchange transactions including India inbound investments  weli  outbound investments Indian Contract Act, 1872 Codifies the way contracts are entered into, executed and implemented.  also codifies the effects  breach  contract Income Tax Act, 1961 Governs direct taxes  the income  ali persons, both corporate and non-corporate,  weli  residents and non-residents Industriai Disputes Act Workmen Compensation Act, 1951Covers labour laws relating  disputes Industriai Development Regulation Act, 1951 Provides for the development and regulation  certain industries Information Technology Act, 1999 Governs -commerce transactions Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2oo8 Establishes  new form  entity which combines the organisationai flexibility  partnership with the advantages  limited liability.  provides operationai flexibility for such enterprises  sparing them detailed legai and procedurai requirements intended for large companies Prevention  Money Laundering Act, 2oo2 Prevents money laundering and provides for the confiscation  property derived from,  involved , money laundering Patents Act, Copyright Act, Trade Marks Act, Design ActProtects intellectuai property rights Right  Information Act, 2oo5 Sets out the right  every citizen  access information under the controi  public Act, the authorities and promotes transparency and accountability  the work  public authorities Securities and Exchange Board  India Act, 1992 Relates  the protection  investor interest  securities and regulation  the securities market.  puts  place securitisation and asset foreclosure laws, creating  legai framework for establishment  asset reconstruction companies Speciai Economic Zones Act, 2oo5 Governs the establishment, development and management  the speciai economic zones SEZs  promote exports.  provides for fiscai and economic incentives for developers  SEZ units Breaking dawn  the horizon: Destination India 2o13 45Notes Contacts Ahmedabad President Plaza, 1st Floor Plot . , Opposite Muktidham DerasarThaltej Cross Roads,   Highway Ahmedabad 38oo54 Phone:   3o91 7ooo Bangalore 6th Floor, Tower  The Millenia1  Murphy Road, UlsoorBangalore 56o oo8 Phone:   4o79 7ooo Chennai 8th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan 129-14o, Greams RoadChennai - 6oo oo6 Phone:   4228 5ooo Hyderabad --293   113A Road . , Jubilee HillsHyderabad 5oo o34 Phone:   6624 66ooKolkata  , Block . Ground Floor, -Wing Sector - , Salt Lake, Kolkata 7oo o91 Phone:   2357 91o1 Mumbai PwC House, Plot .   Gurunanak Road Station Road Bandra West, Mumbai 4oo o5o Phone:   6689 1ooo New Delhi Gurgaon Building . , 17th Floor Tower -, DLF Cyber CityGurgaon 122oo2 Phone:  124 33o6 6ooo Pune -, Tower  Panchshii Tech Park Don Bosco Schooi Road Yerwada, Pune - 411 oo6Phone:   41oo 4444 About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - August 2o13 Destination India. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India