Title: Socio-economic impact of mHealth: An assessment report for the European Union
Date Published: 2013-06-24 02:31:53-05:00
Source: PwC analysismHealth could save 99 billion EUR in healthcare costs in the
Word Count: 7400
Sentence Count: 670
Average Sentence Length: 16.92

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
healthcare: 200
mhealth: 190
patients: 148
chronic: 90
solutions: 84
could: 77
million: 75
care: 64
pwc: 61
health: 58
source: 55
eur: 54
diseases: 53
treatment: 52
benefits: 46
risk: 42
systems: 41
costs: 40
adoption: 37
help: 37

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Socio-economic impact  mHealth  assessment report for the European Union www. pwc.  June 2o13 Executive summary   Socio-economic impact  mHealth   Overcoming barriers  adoption   Appendices   PwC2This report was commissioned  the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programme. Socio-economic impact  mHealth3Chapter  Source: PwC analysismHealth could save  billion EUR  healthcare costs  the European Union  and add  billion EUR  the  GDP  2o17  its adoption  encouraged.  healthcare systems face significant challenges that are creating concerns about the sustainability  healthcare delivery. The combination  increased prevalence  chronic disease and  ageing population that continues  grow  exacerbating the burden  healthcare delivery and costs across multiple  member states. Furthermore, weli publicised budgetary constraints and  shortage  healthcare resources have created  scenario that inhibits these  member states from meeting this increased healthcare demand.  the same time, the  recognises the acute importance  investing  healthcare  tackle these challenges. Various stakeholders  the  are looking  ways  make healthcare systems more sustainable and improve their citizens health. This wili improve wellbeing, increase employability and reduce health inequality.   Totai healthcare cost savings  2o1793  Totai GDP addition  2o17Public savings  Private savings   bn23 bnExecutive summary PwC 4Potentiai  mHealth  address these challenges,  healthcare systems are moving care for chronic conditions and ageing population from hospitals  community homes. There   increasing focus  making care more patient-centric  that patients can  empowered  manage their care. With mobile technologies becoming pervasive across the continent, mobile solutions are beginning  support these new healthcare delivery solutions. These mHealth solutions can influence patient behaviour  improve lifestyles, enable remote treatment  chronic conditions and equip healthcare providers  make better clinicai decisions.   result, patients can stay healthier and resources can  better utilised, whilst also limiting the demand for healthcare and lowering the costs  care.  using mHealth solutions  their potentiai, healthcare systems  the  can achieve the following: Save  billion EUR  totai annuai healthcare spend  2o17 after the cost  extra workforce  support mHealth. These savings wili translate   billion EUR  public expenditure and  billion EUR  private expenditure. This equates  treatment   additionai .  million patients against  constant number  doctors and facilities. Help 185 million patients lead healthier lives and gain 158, ooo years  life.  the totai 185 million patients who can potentially benefit from mHealth, 141 million patients could improve their lifestyle  some extent through improving how they manage their medicai conditions.  these 141 million patients,  million could successfully address one  more lifestyle disorders. Another  million could avoid the risk  developing them and  further  million patients, who are ageing, could become more involved  managing their care and lifestyles.  the virtue  its benefits, mHealth could enable .  million chronic patients and .  million patients  risk  developing chronic diseases  extend their professionai lives and improve their productivity. This would add  billion EUR  the  GDP  2o17.   Totai healthcare cost savings Wellness and preventionDiagnosis Treatment and monitoringCost savings  ADEWorkforce  support mHealth69  .     .   - .   185  Totai mHealth users that could benefit Patients that could improve their lifestylesChronic patients that could benefit from enhanced wellness and preventionChronic and ageing population that could benefit from treatment and monitoring141  .     Patients that could expedite diagnosiso.   Patients with one  more lifestyle disordersPatients  risk  developing lifestyle disordersAgeing population61      Source: PwC analysis Socio-economic impact  mHealth5Socio economic impact  mHealth  2o17 1oo adoption fuli potentiai  adoption   action taken Totai healthcare cost saved  EUR  .  Public care cost saved  EUR  .  Private care cost saved  EUR  .  GDP added  EUR  .  Barriers  adoption and their impactOvercoming the barriers Since the mHealth ecosystem has  broad set  stakeholders and most mHealth benefits are systemic, the onus lies  the regulators and payers  maximise the potentiai  mHealth  quickly intervening with regulations, incentives and initiatives that encourage its adoption and use. The following key actions and initiatives could help drive the adoption  mHealth: Integration  mHealth with the nationwide healthcare strategy  various  member states  align the development  these solutions with their most relevant healthcare priorities. Creation  policies and frameworks that encourage the development  innovative mHealth solutions and harmonise the regulation between the delivery  healthcare and mobile health services. Source: PwC analysis Although initiai estimates  mHealth benefits provided  ongoing mHealth pilots and expert opinion have been promising, there   strong possibility that these potentiai benefits wili  limited,  the adoption  mHealth  not encouraged. Multiple barriers, such  regulatory, economic, structurai and technologicai, are limiting the adoption  mHealth. The need  harmonisation between health and mobile regulatory frameworks, the lack  incentives  healthcare providers towards mHealth solutions and the absence  clearly defined business models aggravate the slow adoption  mHealth solutions. These barriers could limit the adoption  mHealth solutions  only   its 2o17 potentiai, realising only about   the potentiai benefits  2o17. Creation  incentives that encourage, both, patients and healthcare providers  adopt mHealth solutions, and mandate greater cohesion  healthcare providers across levels and regions. Spreading  awareness and provision  education  mHealth for healthcare professionals, patients and consumers. The effective implementation  these recommendations needs collaboration amongst stakeholders. Since regulators and payers can facilitate this collaboration, urgency  their part  act  essentiai.  wili help ensure that the potentiai benefits  mHealth are not pushed out too far   inadequate  addressing the current and future healthcare challenges  the . Socio-economic impact  mHealth stili greater than ever. Steadily rising healthcare costs amidst  stressfui economic environment  the  are constraining the healthcare systems  its member states. 1On  average,  member states spend   their GDP  health. These healthcare expenses have been rising faster than nationai incomes  most member states, making  harder for the sociai contributions  cover them. 1According   report  the  Economic Policy Committee, healthcare costs could increase      the  GDP   few decades, widening the gap between nationai incomes and healthcare spend.  address the current gap, healthcare budgets are being cut across many countries including Germany, Italy and Spain. The out--pocket contribution  people  health expenses  growing and considerable concerns around the sustainability  universai healthcare systems are emerging.  Source:  Economic Policy Committee study  budgetary challenges posed  ageing populations http: 198. 17o. 119. 137 gen-economics. htm The growing healthcare burden  chronic patients and ageing population Chronic diseases such  Type  Diabetes Mellitus T2DM, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder COPD and cardiovascular diseases CVD create  significant burden    already strained healthcare systems. 2According  the Organisation for Economic - operation and Development OECD, there were around  million people living with diabetes Type  and Type   the   2o11 and 3about   the totai annuai healthcare expenses  the  are spent  diabetes Type  and Type . Poorly managed diabetes and the complications  induces result  significantly high hospitai admissions, increasing the cost  care and consumption  healthcare resources. The prevalence  such chronic diseases  high and increasing. Prevention and better management  chronic diseases should therefore   priority for the  and its member states. Chronic diseases could lead  718 billion EUR  lost wages  2o17. Besides the significant healthcare burden, chronic diseases also pose  severe risk  the quality  life and productivity  patients. High  healthcare spend per capita EUR Public expenditure, OPE and non-OPE EUR per capita Source: The World Bank, PwC analysis2.  Current healthcare challenges  the  Sustaining healthcare systems Rising healthcare costs  the  need   lowered  order  limit the burden  the population and payers. Although health advancements made across the  are reflected  the increased life expectancy and adoption  the latest technologies, the challenge that health poses  governments  Source: The World Bank, PwC analysisChapter   Source:  Economic Policy Committee study  budgetary challenges posed  ageing populations http: europa.  epc working_groups ageing_en. htm  Source: OECD Health   glance: Europe 2o12  Source: IDF, LSE, GOLD report  COPD http: www. goldcopd. org uploads users files GOLDReport_April112o11. pdf 2oo11, 1842, 71o 2o112.  2oo19o92, o88  182 Socio-economic impact  mHealth7  population with chronic conditions Source: OECD Health   glance- 2o12, PwC analysis DALY Disability Adjusted Life Years losses from these diseases make early retirements and higher-than-normai unpaid absenteeism common for chronic patients.  The resultant loss  work life and wages  significant. According  PwC estimates,  2o17, around  million chronic patients could lose   718 billion EUR  wages due  around  billion work hours lost  absenteeism and early retirement. Socio economic impact  chronic diseases  2o17 T2DM COPD CVD  Absenteeism days per year per patient42    Early retirement per patient years .  .   Labour hours lost     Wages lost  EUR 194 4o3 121 Source: PwC analysis This potentiai loss  wages would aggravate the financiai strain  the healthcare systems  limiting the sociai security contributions that fund the healthcare budgets, limiting the financiai sustainability  healthcare delivery. The ageing  population, aged  years  above, also contributes significantly  the healthcare burden since they require medicai attention more often and many  them, such  chronic patients, need continuous care due  the multiple health conditions they suffer from  the same time. 7According  the  Economic Policy Committee,       healthcare expenses are spent  people aged  years  above. The share  this group  the overali population  expected  rise from   2o1o    2o6o. Additionally, the care costs for ageing population could rise      2o25 from 2o1o levels. 8By 2o5o, there wili  only two people working for every person above  years  age  the  from the four  2oo4, which may make  harder for the working population  support these rising healthcare costs. 9With only   healthcare expenses  the  being allocated  prevention, there  clearly scope  invest more  the prevention  chronic diseases and avoid the significant costs these diseases generate.  addition, both, chronic patients and the elderly patients have  significant role  ensuring that their wellbeing  maintained and complications can  avoided.  using secondary preventive methods, chronic and elderly patients can manage their diseases better and reduce their severity, thereby limiting the associated healthcare costs.  Source: LSE Health, London Schooi  Economics, Investing  Health http: . europa.  health strategy policy index_en. htm  Source: LSE Health, London Schooi  Economics, Netherlands Expert Centre for Work-related Respiratory Disorders, http: www. bmj.  2o1o 1111o-. pdf,  Source: LSE Health, London Schooi  Economics, Department  Health , www. efanet. org -content documents FletcherEUEdinburgh. pptx  Source:  Economic Policy Committee study  budgetary challenges posed  ageing populations http: europa.  epc working_groups ageing_en. htm  Source:  Economic Policy Committee study  budgetary challenges posed  ageing populations http: europa.  epc working_groups ageing_en. htm  Source:  Health 2o2o visionT2DM COPD CVD Ageing population  years   . 915. 2232694952o12 Growing prevalence  unhealthy lifestyles Unhealthy lifestyles such  poor dietary and physicai regimes and smoking lead  disorders such  obesity and hypertension. These disorders  turn are leading causes  chronic diseases such  T2DM, COPD and CVD. 1oAround   the  population  overweight,   which  obese. With more than 3oo million people who are smokers, obese  hypertensive, there   significant portion  the population that   the risk  developing chronic diseases.  limit the future healthcare burden,  wili   important  prevent and manage the lifestyle disorders  the chronic diseases. The shortage  healthcare professionai resources and its impact  access  care Many  member states are concerned about current  future shortages  doctors and nurses. 11Switzerland could see   their generai practitioners retire  2o25 while Germany may have  replace more than , ooo doctors, including around , ooo GPs,  only 2o2o. This lack  resources creates  risk  reduction  access  primary care and  inefficient utilisation  the limited healthcare budgets. Need  enhance effectiveness and efficiency  healthcare delivery  limit the healthcare burden  chronic diseases and elderly care, many healthcare systems  the  are focusing  empowering patients  manage their conditions better and more independently. They are moving chronic care outside  hospitals  community care settings. However, the shortage  doctors and nurses  also contributing   growing focus  increasing patient- centricity, which encourages patients  proactively manage their health and collaborate more with the healthcare provider even when outside the hospitai. solution pathways from wellness  monitoring  positively influencing patient behaviour, making care more patient-centric and improving clinicai outcomes. Healthcare delivery can also  made more efficient  lowering the cost  treatment due  the need for fewer hospitalisations and through enabling current resources  treat many more patients  parallei.  aforesaid, enabling remote treatment and monitoring, mHealth solutions can help shift care for chronic and ageing patients from hospitals and community care settings  their homes, thereby providing patients with greater access  healthcare resources remotely. Furthermore, remote interactions and reminders  take medication can increase dietary and treatment compliance levels. Complications can, therefore,  avoided and treatment costs reduced. The reduction  need for hospitalisation can free  physicai and human healthcare resources  treat additionai patients. Increasing the patient-centricity  care could move delivery  care outside hospitals and make patients more responsible for their health, limiting the healthcare burden and freeing  healthcare resources.  attain these objectives together, the healthcare systems  the  would need  leverage technologies  solutions that help patients adopt behaviours  prevent diseases, optimise the quality  care, lower its costs and keep patients and doctors remotely connected  each other. .  Addressing the challenges through mHealth solutions mHealth solutions help prevent diseases and promote health, while lowering the cost  care and freeing  resources for additionai patients that may not have adequate access  healthcare. With mobile technologies becoming more widespread, mHealth solutions can increase the effectiveness  healthcare delivery across ali patient  Source: OECD Health   glance: Europe 2o12  Source: Remedy presented  cure doctor shortage www. swissinfo. , German Medicai Association BÄK - Nationai Association  Statutory Health Insurance Physicians KBV study http: www. thelocai.  society 2o1oo9o3-29587. htmi. -ylLXDA9Y Socio-economic impact  mHealth9In addition  this, mHealth solutions can empower citizens with information and motivation  improve lifestyles and reduce the threat  chronic diseases. Effectively, due  the various benefits mHealth provides,  may  highly usefui  galvanising healthcare systems  attain their objectives and empowering patients cost-effectively. Assessing the socio-economic impact  mHealth mHealth can create  socio-economic impact across four dimensions  improving the effectiveness and efficiency  care. Covering  wider population, mHealth can help people receive  higher quality  care  lower costs.  improving the delivery  healthcare across the four dimensions listed below, mHealth solutions can reduce hospitalisations, enable healthier lives and create  more productive employee base, facilitating  significant socio-economic impact: Wellness and prevention: Supporting citizens  making lives healthier  improving lifestyles and reducing the incidence  disease through education, awareness and behaviorai changes. Diagnosis: Expediting the diagnosis  chronic diseases  order  limit their severity and associated treatment costs. Treatment and monitoring: Administering care remotely through mobile-based communication technologies that support patient mobility and reduce the need  visit hospitals. Stronger healthcare systems: Enhancing clinicai decision-making and improving the utilisation  physicai and human healthcare resources  providing the system and staff more information and analysis.  this report,  have quantified the health benefits that mHealth solutions can provide across the four dimensions discussed above  using initiai outputs from relevant studies and their validation  healthcare experts  relevant geographies. While  have referenced these inputs throughout the report, the methodology and assumptions for quantifying the impact have been detailed  the appendices. . .  Enhancing wellness and prevention The significance  healthier lifestyles The lack  education and information  the importance  wellness and prevention can keep .  million people exposed  the risk  developing chronic diseases due  unhealthy lifestyles. 12According  expert opinion,  improvement  wellbeing effected through  healthy diet and regular exercise can reduce the risk  developing  chronic disease     depending  the type  disease. With .  million people expected    severe risk  developing T2DM, COPD and CVD  2o17, enhanced wellness can ensure disease free lives for some  these patients. Mobile health has the potentiai  deliver larger benefits than tele-health    more accessible than tele-health. Horst Merkle, Roche Diagnostics  Source: IDF, LSE, GOLD report  COPD http: www. goldcopd. org uploads users files GOLDReport_April112o11. pdf PwC1o Population  risk  developing chronic conditions  the    Lifestyle disorder prevalence     Source: JAMA Internai Medicine, Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group, Turner White, OECD Health   Glance- 2o12, Silverchain. org, PwC analysis  Source: http: ndep. nih. gov media gp_toolkit. pdf34    obese people benefit from self-directed weight loss program and counsellingof smokers quit smoking successfully  constantly motivated and remindedof hypertensive population can benefit from regular tracking  their blood pressure6o    potentiai diabetics can avoid T2DM through healthy diet and exerciseof people  risk  COPD can avoid  through improved diet and fitnessof people  risk  CVD can avoid  through improved wellbeingImprovement  lifestyles could lower the severity  chronic diseases for  million patients  2o17. Regular exercise and  healthy diet can reduce the chance  T2DM patients developing complications  13around  while half  the CVD patients may  able  avoid complications and hospitalisations.  2o17, improvement  lifestyles across the  million plus chronic patients  the  can significantly reduce the healthcare burden and costs. Inducing healthier lifestyles using mHealth solutions mHealth can enable such lifestyle improvements  equipping patients with relevant information  their mobile devices, thereby helping them make improved and informed lifestyle choices. mHealth solutions that focus  wellness and prevention can help them make better decisions about simple aspects  their lifestyle such  the food  eat, ways  counter the urge  smoke, and the number  steps  walk.  key reason for the reluctance  manage one  lifestyle better  lack  self-motivation and adherence. Interactive, self-directed mHealth solutions can motivate patients  improve their lifestyle  developing  game-like mindset  attaining everyday fitness goals. Healthcare providers can help ageing patients manage their care better  encouraging them  use mHealth solutions that involve them  maintaining wellness. These mHealth solutions enable patients  store their test results, readings  health parameters and the curative measures they take. Doctors can use the patient  health history built over time  make the treatment more patient-centric and effective. Finding  doctor  finding information  not  much  challenge. The major challenges are self-motivation and adherence.  think this  one  the major  - portunities for mobile health where  can work with patients  users. Bastian Hauck, Founder, Team Blood Glucose Obesity Smoking HypertensionT2DM COPD CVD 2o1258 6o1o4 1o23o2 3o6 2o17 2o1218. 118.  .  . 716. 117.  Socio-economic impact  mHealth11 Chronic disease prevalence     Source: Nationai Institutes  Health  Diabetes Prevention Programme, Silverchain. org, Eurekalert. org, PwC analysis  Source: http: ndep. nih. gov media gp_toolkit. pdf31    Type  diabetics can benefit from healthy diet and exerciseof COPD patients can improve their conditions  focusing  wellbeingof CVD patients can help improve effectiveness  care through improved wellbeingImproving lifestyles using mHealth SAPO Fit,  application  controi obesity Portugai Developer: SAPO, Portugai Telecom This mobile application helps users  monitor  reai time the calories eaten,  detailing the food intake, and the calories burned when physicai activity  undertaken. SAPO Fit may  personalized  keep  daily Personai Health Record PHR   individuai  food intake and daily exercise, and  share this with contacts and communities   sociai network  encourage optimisation  one  wellness regime and motivating one  stay fit  encouraging  collective endeavour. Traffic Light Food Tracker,  tooi that helps people eat healthy food Various  member states Developer: Cancer Councii Victoria, Obesity Policy Coalition Language support: German, English, French, Dutch This mobile application helps people eat more healthy food  using traffic light colours  rate the nutrition details   food item listed  its packaging The user types  the content details such  totai fat, saturated fat, sugar and sodium content per 1oo grams, and the app calculates  traffic light evaluation  unhealthiness  the food item green for low, amber for medium, and red for high.  can help people take better controi  their food and dietary choices  avoid many lifestyle diseases such  obesity and hypertension. Source: European Directory  Health Apps 2o12- http: www. patient-view. com -buli-directories. htmi, Pub Med http: www. ncbi. nlm. nih. gov pubmed 2265725o T2DM COPD CVD 2o1228.  . 923. 729.  . 225.  PwC12Burden  smoking Tobacco  the single largest avoidable health risk  . About   the smokers   start smoking before they turn . Around   smokers die prematurely   average  years earlier.  accounts for nearly 7oo, ooo premature deaths across . Growing focus  anti-smoking The European Commission has launched campaigns like -smokers are Unstoppable,  order  encourage young adults  the age group   years   years smoking. iCoach   online digitai health coaching platform that helps individuals quit smoking.  provides tailored feedbacks, sends users daily -maii tips  reminders for motivation. Researchers have estimated that mobile phone programmes could nearly double the chance  quitting for  least six months, from     controi groups      intervention groups. Impact  mHealth  smoking  2o17, mHealth has the potentiai  save .  billion EUR  helping people quit smoking. Such avoidance  smoking wili result   billion EUR tax loss for the government. Reducing the risk  chronic diseases mHealth could help .  million citizens better manage the risk  chronic diseases  improving their lifestyle.  using the type  mHealth solutions discussed earlier, healthcare providers and patients can successfully controi the incidence  lifestyle disorders and maintain wellbeing  the following ways: According  PwC estimates, potentially, .  million obese people  the  may use mHealth solutions regularly  2o17 and .  million  these may  able  reduce weight enough  avoid needing treatment for obesity. Out  the 1o2 million smokers, .  million can potentially use mHealth solutions regularly and .  million smokers could quit smoking successfully. The resulting improvement  lifestyles and preventive measures enabled  mHealth can significantly lower the risk  chronic diseases  the following ways:  2o17, out  the .  million people  risk  developing chronic diseases  the , .  million could use mHealth solutions regularly  manage their lifestyles and take measures such  monitoring their blood pressure and diet  maintain wellbeing. The regular use  these solutions can help .  million patients  the .  million  improve their respective lifestyle disorders enough  reduce the risk  disease. Accounting for the reduced probability  developing chronic diseases amongst these .  million patients, .  million patients can significantly limit the risk  developing chronic diseases  ali. The reduction  risk spreads across the key chronic diseases  have assessed T2DM, COPD and CVD: Around  million  the .  million people  risk  developing T2DM could better manage their obesity  hypertension  using mHealth solutions regularly.  these  million patients, about  mHealth could reduce risk  chronic conditions for .   users  2o17 Source: PwC analysismHealth users who can successfully reduce risk  chronic conditions mHealth users who can significantly improve their lifestyle disorders Totai mHealth users .  .  . .  .  . 714.  . .  T2DM COPD CVDmHealth could enable   users  improve their lifestyles   Source: PwC analysisUsers who can benefit from mHealth Totai mHealth users Hypertension47.  . . 9147 Smoking Obesity Socio-economic impact  mHealth13Impact for diabetes  2o17, mHealth can save   people from being  risk  developing diabetes. About 161, ooo cases  diabetes can  prevented. Lives  , 2oo diabetics can  saved. About 151, ooo life years can  saved for people  risk  developing diabetes. Around   EUR  earnings can  added  avoiding absenteeism and .   EUR  avoiding early retirement. Hospitalisation days saved ooo Life years saved ooo T2DM COPD CVDmillion could successfully reduce the risk  developing T2DM. About .  million people from among the .  million  risk  developing COPD may improve their lifestyle conditions enough through regular use  mHealth solutions that support smoking cessation and improved wellbeing.  these .  million,  million can successfully reduce the risk  COPD. Similarly,  the .  million people  risk  developing CVDs, about .  million people could successfully use mHealth  make lifestyle and dietary improvements.  these, about 833, ooo could successfully reduce the risk  developing CVD. Limiting burden  chronic diseasesRisk reductionIncidences prevented tili T2DM .   161, ooo COPD .   363, ooo CVD .   , ooo Source: PwC analysis The reduced risk can avoid 589, ooo incidences  chronic disease  2o17, helping healthcare providers across the  dedicate their resources  sustain the treatment  other patients. Helping patients suffering from chronic diseases manage their condition better Improved lifestyles can help .  million patients suffering from chronic diseases manage their condition better and increase the effectiveness  cares. Source: PwC analysisUsers who may not benefit Users benefitted T2DM4.  .  . . .  .  COPD CVDSource: European Directory  Health Apps 2o12-  supporting chronic patients  improving their lifestyles through mHealth solutions, healthcare providers can encourage these patients  monitor their diet, physicai activity and medications. The solutions can help healthcare providers and patients track the impact  these changes  relevant health parameters, allowing doctors  customise and improve care.  doing , .  million chronic patients  the  could manage their conditions better  2o17. Optimising use  healthcare resources Source: NYY-Tunstali-NHS study, PwC analysis The impact  mHealth enabled wellness-oriented measures could help healthcare systems address the key needs  enhancing quality  care and making delivery more efficient. The reduced incidence and severity  chronic diseases could lower the burden  healthcare facilities  avoiding 324, ooo days  hospitalisation. Patients  risk  developing chronic diseases and those suffering from  could collectively live 158, ooo years longer.  reducing the severity and incidence  chronic diseases, mHealth solutions could save  totai   billion EUR  treatment costs, allowing healthcare delivery systems  better cope with reducing budgets. The increased availability  healthcare resources and budgets could also allow healthcare systems  ensure better access  care  treating additionai patients. Empowering patients  self manage diseases and prevent complications iBP Blood Pressure,  tooi  track blood pressure  Developer: Leading Edge Apps This smartphone application helps patients track blood pressure values and determine whether these are normai, high,   hypertension. Using interactive graphs,  shows periodic trends  the user  user blood pressure and indicates statistics such  lows, highs and averages over periods  monitoring. The application helps  hypertensive patient get more involved  managing one  condition better. OnTrackDiabetes, for self management  diabetes  Developer: Gexperts Inc This mobile application helps diabetics self- manage their condition  tracking various relevant parameters such  blood glucose, blood pressure , exercise, food, medication, pulse and weight.  produces  variety  graphs and reports, and creates  log book which can  shared with the doctor for analysis. Through active lifestyle management, the tooi can help diabetics  take more controi over their disease and delay diabetes induced complications. Source: PwC analysisT2DM COPD CVD Obesity Smoking Hypertension Chronic patients11. o46.  .   risk  chronic diseaseLifestyle disorders  T2DM1 COPD CVD98.  T2DMo.  COPD .  CVD The Nationai Diabetes Inpatient Audit tells  that  any one time around   hospitai beds are taken   people with Diabetes.  these, only   patients have  primary diagnosis  diabetes, the rest are there for other complications. There   reai need for hospitals  capture patients early and understand the condition because treating  complication condition  more costly per day. John Grumitt Vice President, Diabetes  About   limb amputations due  diabetes are completely avoidable  proper diagnosis  done periodically.   limb  lost than the chance  life for  more years   and the chance  living for  years  . The sociai and economic cost  simply enormous and largely avoidable. John Grumitt, Vice President, Diabetes UK2. .  Expediting diagnosis The importance  early diagnosis Delay  diagnosis  chronic diseases increases complications and treatment costs Source: PwC analysis Source: http: www. businesswire. com news home 2o11122ooo5893  App-Store-Names-AirStrip-CAR - DIOLOGY-iPhone-Medica The latent nature  chronic diseases leads  delays  diagnosis. 14On average,   T2DM patients are not aware  their condition untii seven  eight years after the disease has developed. Around   people are usually not aware  the causes  disease and their symptoms.  addition due  the lack  access  diagnostic facilities, these factors contribute  patients not undergoing preventive health check-ups and thereby delaying the diagnosis  disease. Enabling remote diagnosis AirStrip CARDIOLOGY, remote diagnosis and treatment decision making tooi for heart patients This smartphone application enables physicians  view electrocardiograms  their mobile devices.  allows clinicians anytime and anywhere access  live and historicai ECG data  patients  their iPad and iPhone, along with enhanced analytics.  helps clinicians  make faster, more informed diagnosis and treatment decisions. When treating cardiac patients, these extra minutes can help patients recover quickly  expediting medicai intervention and prevent heart damage. .   people  risk  chronic disease can use mHealth-enabled diagnosis regularly 815, ooo people can diagnose chronic diseases early Due  these reasons, most chronic diseases get diagnosed when complications appear. Hence, the severity  the chronic disease increases, resulting  increased hospitalisation and higher treatment costs.  Source: IDF Atlas, 2o12, PwC analysis Socio-economic impact  mHealth153.   EUR costs saved due  improved outcomes Note: ALOS: Average Length  Stay Source: Rosemontpharma, Ericsson mobile health study, PwC analysis Need for monitoring amongst chronic patients   Source: Rosemontpharma, Ericsson mobile health study, PwC analysis99.  T2DMo COPD .  CVD Source: -health initiative report  California Healthcare, PwC analysis Patients with condition Patients who need   monitored  151126 T2DM COPD CVD Ageing populationExpediting diagnosis using mHealth solutions  totai  .  million patients could benefit from mHealth through the expedited diagnosis  chronic diseases and timely medicai interventions, saving .  billion EUR  treatment costs. mHealth solutions that enable remote diagnosis and self-assessment  symptoms enable healthcare providers  detect diseases earlier and facilitate timely medicai interventions. These solutions educate patients  symptoms  disease, helping them understand  and when they need  undergo diagnostic tests. Some mHealth solutions also allow patients  store the results  diagnostic tests  their mobile devices and share these with the healthcare provider, eliminating the need  hospitai visits.  doing , mHealth solutions reduce the burden , both, diagnostic facilities and care facilities. Hence, access  care increases and diagnosis becomes more affordable. Increasing effectiveness and efficiency  care Through educationai and algorithmic solutions that allow patients  self- assess symptoms, mHealth can help .  million regular users  risk  developing chronic diseases  expedite diagnosis. Accounting for the prevalence  various chronic diseases  the , PwC estimates that 815, ooo patients can successfully detect chronic diseases early. These patients could avoid complications and seek medicai attention earlier, reducing the need for hospitalization and saving .  billion EUR  treatment costs. Doctors and paramedic staff could save 472, ooo doctor days  having  treat fewer complications. . .  Delivering continuous care remotely Monitoring patients that require continuous care Continuous care and the lack  treatment adherence  chronic conditions raises care costs and creates  need for monitoring. Chronic diseases and elderly care require constant, reai-time management. The patients need   disciplined with their treatment and diet schedules. The high levels  adherence required from patients can  tiring and patients often miss their medication, resulting  non- compliance  treatment. Additionally, patients often mistake temporary relief for significant improvement and discontinue treatment  lower medication levels. The sub-optimai clinicai outcomes resulting from these reasons lead  hospitai -admissions.  limit this non-compliance and avoid hospitai -admissions, patients need   continuously monitored  hospitai for longer periods, which increases treatment costs and further burdens healthcare systems. PwC estimates that  million chronic patients and  million ageing people  the  could need monitoring  2o17.  sustain these monitoring needs with limited hospitai beds, healthcare systems are exploring ways  treat patients  their homes. Ind. ageing Non-compliance rate  ALOS per year 23472, ooo doctor days can  saved T2DM 466, ooo doctors COPD , ooo doctorsCVD , ooo doctors T2DM Non-compliance rate  ALOS per year  COPD Non-compliance rate  ALOS per year 12CVD Non-compliance rate  ALOS per year  PwC16mHealth can benefit  high number  chronic patients   mHealth can benefit  high number  chronic patients    5922 T2DM COPD CVD Ageing populationPatients who need   monitored Patients monitored using mhealth Patients benefitted Source: Continua Health alliance, SeniorBridge, AXA Insurance, NYY-NHS Telehealth study, PwC analysis Mobile health can help  reducing the readmission rates  the patient.  can help  taking the care away from the healthcare facility  home.  could also help  establishing  early warning system. Alain Labrique, John Hopkins UniversityEnabling continuous care outside hospitals mHealth enabled monitoring could help remotely deliver care   million independently ageing citizens and  million chronic patients. mHealth solutions help healthcare delivery systems  provide continuous care remotely  using mobile technologies.  keeping healthcare providers connected with patients while they are  home, these solutions can allow healthcare providers  monitor the health  patients and intervene when required. These solutions also motivate patients  improve their lifestyle and help increase their dietary and treatment compliance through SMS and cali based reminders. Patients can transmit their pathologicai readings through connected mobile devices  their healthcare providers, who can then analyse the health patterns captured  optimise care and make  patient- centric. mHealth solutions can also help patients feei safer  helping healthcare providers track their movements remotely and raising emergency alerts earlier.  empowering patients  self-manage care, healthcare providers can help  million ageing citizens and  million chronic patients regularly rely  mHealth for continuous care  2o17. Enhancing effectiveness  care Improved adherence and remote treatment enabled  mHealth can save , ooo lives and reduce 168 million hospitai days, increasing effectiveness  care. Enabling remote treatment iBGStar, remote and self management  diabetes iBGStar   mobile phone application that uses  device plugged into the smart phone  view, store and track blood glucose levels. Additionally, the application matches blood sugars   meai that  individuai has just finished.  stores nutritionai information about the meai and communicates that information  the doctor, allowing them  intervene early and make the overali treatment more effective. Medipai, doctor-patient communication application Sweden Developer: Novatelligence , Sweden This smart phone application improves doctor-patient communication  helping  patient answer questions that the healthcare provider wishes  ask. The healthcare provider creates  Medipai account for the patient, enters into  questions about one  treatment and medicai condition that the patient should answer. This interaction with the remotely located doctor not only increases the patient  involvement  one  own care but also helps doctors  stay engaged with their patient  treatment cycle even  the patient doesn  visit the hospitai. Source: European Directory  Health Apps 2o12-, http: www. bgstar. com web ibgstar app, Orange, GSMA Connected Living Tracker Ageing population .  mnTreatment and Monitoring improved using mhealth .   168  Hospitalisation days saved   Ageing populationo.  Chronic diseasesHospitalisation days saved   Source: HOPE-European hospitai and healthcare federation, PwC analysisLimiting burden  chronic diseasesRisk reductionIncidences prevented tili 2o17 T2DM   COPD   CVD   Ageing population   Socio-economic impact  mHealth17Improved adherence and continuous remote treatment  chronic conditions using mHealth can help avoid severe complications and improve clinicai outcomes.   result,  million chronic patients can avoid 121, ooo days  hospitalisation and , ooo lives can  saved.  addition, elderly patients can avoid .  million falls. Furthermore, improved emergency response and treatment compliance for  million elderly patients can save 168 million days  hospitalisation. There  also the additionai benefit  having the comfort  staying  home thereby enhancing the quality  their life. Healthcare cost savings   EUR Source: PwC analysis Working days saved for doctors   Source: PwC analysis Source: European Directory  Health Apps 2o12-13Increasing efficiency  care Increased effectiveness  care through remote monitoring can not only save .  billion EUR  treatment costs but also reduce the shortfali  , 84o doctors  helping attain improved clinicai outcomes and reduce the need  hospitalisation, mHealth enabled remote monitoring could save  billion EUR  healthcare costs across the . Healthcare providers can monitor multiple patients  once and prioritise patients  attend , which reduces waiting times. According  PwC estimates, around .  million working days saved for doctors can  saved   result, which  the equivalent  , 84o doctors being added  the system. . .  Strengthening healthcare delivery systems Inefficient utilisation   and electronic health records Healthcare systems across the  have varied capabilities  leverage information and communication technologies  support their practitioners.   estimated that practitioners spend     their time gathering and analysing medicai and patient care data. The absence  inefficient use  electronic health records can limit the efficiency   hospitai. Lack  mobility support for doctors can keep them from accessing information  the move which limits the efficient utilization  their time. Further, most doctors have  invest personai effort  seek information  the latest protocols, best practices and internationai updates. The lack  readily available relevant information can result  uninformed clinicai decisions. Such decisions can lead  prescription and dosage errors, creating adverse drug events ADEs that cost  healthcare systems .  billion EUR per year  care costs and account for .   ali hospitalisations  the . Addressing the shortage  doctors through improved practitioner support mHealth could create  million working days for doctors  improving practitioner support, reducing the shortfali  doctors  156, ooo. Source: PwC analysis 16Using tablet computers and other mobile devices can help doctors and paramedic staff  save   their time spent  accessing and analysing information. Doctors and paramedics could update patient health records during consultations and plan their rounds better.  2o17, .  million doctors across the  could, save    million working days for doctors. This could not only create additionai capacity equivalent  156, ooo doctors but also allow doctors  spend more time with patients that really need face  face attention, enhancing the quality  care. Enhancing practitioner support  Life Record, Electronic Medicai Record system Life Record EMR   smartphone based application which provides patients better controi  their electronic medicai records.  allows patients  store their medicai imaging, charts, medications and lab results. Patients can easily share such records with their doctors and nurses.  also includes features like -prescription which saves doctor  time  write  prescription, allows patients  increase compliance and expedites medicai interventions. Source: http: www. myliferecord. com index. html1.   doctors   working days for doctors saved3o  doctor  time  spent accessing and updating medicai records mHealth can reduce this time   .  . 162.  . 242.  . o722.  . 4632.  T2DM COPD CVD Ageing populationTotai savings T2DM COPD CVD Totai working days saved for doctors Enhancing treatment compliance using mHealth MoviPili, medication reminder application Spain, Movistar Telefónica The smartphone application encourages patients  take their medication  prescribed times  making the treatment adherence process more competitive.  uses  point based system  reward and reprimand the levels  drug adherence. Points are awarded  deducted based  how close  the prescribed time patients took their medication. Leaders are visible   communai web based scoreboard and winners are awarded  the end  each week. Such participative applications motivate patients towards their care and improve treatment adherence. Next five years wili see mobile explode  healthcare  there are possibilities that are emerging from the sort  facilities that mobile technologies are able  provide. The convergence between the mobile phones and traditionai computers  form  tablets and smartphones wili revolutionise the way healthcare  delivered. Lars Palmberg, Stockholm City Councii . Anand Iyer, President and COO, WellDoc; . Annette Kroettinger, German Foundation for the Chronically Ili, Germany  Source: Stockholm County Councii, Sweden .   165 mnCost  ADE 2o17 Cost reduction  ADE Preventing ADEs Helping healthcare providers stay informed can allow them  save 165 million EUR  preventing ADEs. Source: Ispor. org, PwC analysis According  expert opinion, 1735  the ADEs can  avoided  practitioners have access  adequate information while writing prescriptions. mHealth solutions can help here  providing practitioners access  latest information, best practices and patients medicai records. Therefore, practitioners can check potentiai drug conflicts while writing prescriptions and make better clinicai decisions, thereby improving the quality  care and patient safety. 3In 2o17, preventable ADEs could  lowered   and 165 million EUR could  saved  treatment costs. .  Creating value through mHealth Enabling healthcare providers  empower patients Adding  ali the benefits  mHealth, enhanced healthcare delivery can empower  million people  improve their lifestyles, reduce the risk  developing chronic diseases amongst .  million people and add  further 158, ooo life years  2o17.   ADEs are preventable  adequate knowledge  available mHealth can help prevent   preventable ADEs This results  overali ADE reduction     2o17, mHealth could enhance effectiveness  care  the following ways: Helping  million patients improve their lifestyles. Helping .  million people lower the risk  developing chronic diseases through lifestyle improvement and enhanced prevention. Helping prevent 589, ooo incidences  chronic diseases. Helping  million chronic patients and nine million ageing patients reduce complications and avoid 169 million days  hospitalisation through remote treatment and monitoring. These benefits are significant because not only they can sustain healthcare systems longer but patients benefiting from mHealth can also stay healthier and prolong their lives. Limiting the healthcare spend and improving its efficiency  2o17, mHealth could save  aggregated  billion EUR  healthcare costs for the , with the  governments saving  billion EUR and 537 EUR per regular mHealth user.  using mHealth  enhance the effectiveness and efficiency   COPD11 CVD  T2DM care, improved clinicai decision- making, remote monitoring, reduced hospitalisation and better utilisation  doctors time could allow healthcare systems  achieve the following: Save more than  million doctor days. Create systemic savings   billion EUR, which account for the six billion EUR required  finance the 211, ooo jobs required  support mHealth deployments. Reduce the annuai per capita healthcare costs for the 185 million patients that could benefit from mHealth solutions  537 EUR. Enable 185 million patients  save  EUR per year  out--pocket health expenses.  the  billion EUR savings created, public payers could save  billion EUR  this while private spending can  reduced   billion EUR. These savings could help treat  additionai .  million patients, sustain capitai costs for mHealth deployments and healthcare facilities and  the long term improve the access  care  reducing private healthcare premiums.  Source: http: www. ispor. org ValueInHealth ShowValueInHealth. aspx? issue 5999FB72-6F7B-4BAA-83B2-4C9C37B7FB2o  Source: http: www. se2oo9.  polopoly_fs . 8227! menu standard file eHealth 2ofor 2oa 2oHealthier 2oEurope. pdfCreating healthier and longer lives Preventing 589, ooo incidences  chronic diseasesAdditionai patients could  treated using the time saved for doctors and hospitai beds freed  Stronger healthcare systems Remote treatment and monitoring Life years added ooo Life saved ooo 6158 mn126 .  mn39 mn1.  .  . .  mnTotai doctor days saved Totai hospitai days savedAdditionai patients that could  attended Additionai patients that could  treated Wellness and prevention Treatment and monitor - ing: Chronic patientsWith improved practitioner support Treat - ment and monitoring Independent ageingDiagnosis Wellness and pre - vention.  Treatment and Monitoring Assumptions: . Each additionai patient wili need  visits per year .  doctor can conduct  patient visits per day .  doctor utilises only half  the time saved  see  - ditionai patients .  patient gets hospitalised for .  days per year, the aver - age length  stay  hospitals across the  Socio-economic impact  mHealth19The reduction  per capita savings could also   significant improvement   environment where governments are asking people  support health expenses   greater extent than before. Hence, the healthcare systems can achieve the opposing goals  ensuring access  care and limiting healthcare costs  using mHealth.   EUR healthcare costs saved Source: HOPE-European hospitai and healthcare federation, PwC analysis  ensure that capitai costs incurred  mHealth deployments  the near-term are covered through future healthcare savings,   important  appreciate that 265 billion EUR can  saved  healthcare costs from 2o13  2o17 through the use  mHealth. While the savings  2o17 alone are significant, the healthcare expenses that can  saved  avoided using mHealth over this five- year period wili  extremely relevant  ensure that future gains are sufficiently large for healthcare providers  justify  immediate investment  mHealth. Boosting economic growth  2o17,  enhanced quality  life and prolonged professionai lives could add  billion EUR  the  GDP. The enhanced productivity  185 million patients benefitting from mHealth could create  positive economic impact  society.  totai  .  million patients  risk  developing chronic diseases would  able  avoid .  billion hours  otherwise unpaid absenteeism due  ili health.  totai  .  million chronic patients wili  able  avoid 5o8, ooo instances  premature retirement and collectively extend their professionai lives  .  billion work hours.   result, the disposable wages  these .  million patients can increase   billion EUR and enabling the government  collect  additionai .  billion EUR  taxes. Chronic patients who would have successfully avoided premature retirement   2o17  using mHealth  manage their diseases could add .  billion work hours  their lives  2o17. Due  avoidance  unpaid absenteeism and premature retirement, the disposable wages  patients who successfully extend their professionai lives can increase   billion EUR and the government can collect  additionai .  billion EUR  taxes. mHealth could, thus, help create greater safeguards  challenging economic times, increase investments and enhance availability  funds  finance healthcare costs. Improved wellness and prevention69 Early diagnosisRemote treatment and monitoringStronger healthcare systemsHealthcare cost savings due  mHealth adoption    EUR Source: HOPE-European hospitai and healthcare federation, PwC analysisIf healthcare cost savings are used  treat additionai patients, .  million patients can  treated, leaving significant savings  support cost  mHealth deployments   EUR Healthcare cost savings66.   EUR Cost savings spent  new patients .   EUR Remaining cost savings24.   Additionai patients EUR , 71o Avg. healthcare spend per patient Sustain mHealth capitai costs 2o13 2o14 2o15 2o16 2o17 Totai Work hours saved due  abseneeism avoidance   4286 Work hours saved due  early retirement     EUR can get added   GDP Source: PwC analysis27 Taxes WagesExtending professionai lives for citizensAvoidance  early retirement and absenteeism .  Reduction  unpaid absentees   .  Early retirements avoided   PwC2o Overcoming barriers  adoption Lack  adoption can severely limit the realisation  mHealth  potentiai The initiai estimates  the socio- economic impact  mHealth  described  this report present  compelling case  accelerate the adoption  mHealth. However,  present there are multiple barriers that prevent mHealth solutions from being adopted and achieving scale. According  expert opinion19, only   the potentiai users  2o17 could adopt mHealth due  these barriers, and,   result, only   the potentiai benefits might get realised. There are four sets  active barriers that limit the adoption  mHealth. These barriers are: Regulatory:  absence  adequate regulatory mechanisms that enable innovative health services   deployed whilst ensuring patient safety and trust  delaying services reaching patients and healthcare professionals. - Lack  clarity  mHealth certification: Clarity needs   provided  how medicai device regulations apply  mHealth, providing  clear pathway for certification. - Lack  interoperability standards: The absence  regulations  standards that mandate interoperability amongst mHealth solutions and devices limit the scope  innovation and economies  scale   achieved  weli  negatively impacting ease  use. Regular mHealth users subjected  benefit  2o17   Source: PwC analysisPotentiai - 1oo adoptionPotentiai - 1oo adoptionNo action -  adoptionNo action -  adoptionChapter   Primary interview with OnMobileTotai healthcare cost savings  2o17  EUR Totai GDP addition  2o17  EUR     .   .   Socio-economic impact  mHealth21 - Lack  clarity  data protection legislation: Health data  the    sensitive issue and requires  high levei  protection.   result, the legislation for data protection  the  places individuai right  privacy above the use  such data for the larger benefit  society, thereby restricting healthcare providers from sharing such data2o. This localises mHealth deployments and limits their effectiveness  analysing patient data. Economic: These barriers restrict the adoption and scalability  mHealth solutions  either limiting their affordability  making their use commercially unviable for healthcare providers and patients. - Need for further evidence: Healthcare providers and policy makers require further evidence  clinicai and economic benefits that mHealth can provide  increase its adoption. - Conflicting financiai incentives for healthcare providers: Across  few healthcare systems  the , healthcare providers are allocated budgets according  the number  patients treated Regulation  lagging behind adoption. Adesina Illuyemi, University  Portsmouth Lack  payment mechanisms   major limitation. Technologies paid for are adopted quickly. . Annette Kroettinger, German Foundation for the Chronically ili mHealth wili generate data but  common framework  host that data currently exists.  common framework  needed within the  region  ensure that mHealth can provide reai benefits. Yannis Nahai, Orange There  currently  lack  decision-making from the government  the form  delay  procedures, absence  correct economic incentive  use such solutions --  keep healthcare organisations attracted towards such solutions. Stefano Roscini, Telecom Italia Changes are not coming from within  existing hospitals are governed   economic modei which works  adding resources. This  not sustainable. John Grumitt, Vice President, Diabetes  Successfui business models could consist  getting data from cloud-based services and collaborating with other stakeholders  that the data could  analysed and used. Horst Merkle, Roche Diagnostics  The European data protection legislation and its consequences for public health monitoring:  plea for action http: eurpub. oxfordjournals. org content   55o. long PwC22in hospitals. Such financiai incentives are  direct conflict with the overali goai  mHealth  other similar technologies that could keep patients away from hospitals. - Lack  reimbursement mechanisms for patients:  lack  reimbursement  funding mechanisms that could cover patients for the cost  mHealth solutions and associated devices limits the adoption  these solutions, especially amongst the low income groups. - Limited awareness  benefits  mHealth: Quite often, healthcare providers and patients are unaware  the benefits  mHealth solutions, which can slow down their adoption and increase the selling expenses for mHealth vendors. Structurai: The existing structure  healthcare systems could either restrict  discourage cohesion and competition amongst various healthcare providers, preventing solutions that enable efficiency from being adopted. - Lack  cohesion: Healthcare systems could  better integrated functionally and electronically across the  member states21. The resulting lack  cohesion across levels  care and regions, limits the scale and effectiveness  mHealth deployments. - High change management needs: The significant change management associated with deployment and use  mHealth solutions requires allocation  time and resources, which may lower the efficiency and profitability  healthcare delivery during the transitory period. Technologicai: The absence  technologicai standards that promote the efficient development and use  mHealth solutions prevent mHealth investments from being utilised weli and limit the deployment  mHealth. - Absence  protocols  standardise solutions: Standardising the data definitions across mHealth solutions  necessary  allow  seamless exchange  data across solutions and platforms. The absence  such data protocols could limit the efficient use  these solutions and restrict their benefits. - Lack  interoperability: The absence  regulations that mandate the solutions and devices capable  working with each other can localise the applicability  these solutions and limit their scalability. - Late involvement  doctors  solution design: Quite often, doctors are involved  the development   mHealth solution  the later stages  the design process. This late involvement results   mismatch between the actuai healthcare workflows and the ones incorporated  the mHealth solution. Hence, healthcare providers avoid adopting these due  the significant change management needs. Actions needed  drive adoption Immediate actions from policy makers, regulators and payers can help lower the barriers and drive adoption Many mHealth benefits are system- oriented and may  visible over the longer term. Immediate action  the key adoption barriers  needed  ensure that these benefits can  attained  time  meet the current and imminent healthcare challenges adequately. Various initiatives, such  the eHealth Action Plan, have been taken  the European Commission and some  member states  better leverage eHealth. Similarly,  better harness the potentiai  mHealth, the regulators and policy makers across the European Commission and various  member states need  formulate policies that can drive adoption  mHealth solutions. The nationai and regionai payers need  support these policies  creating facilitative reimbursement mechanisms that ease the adoption  mHealth solutions across patients and healthcare providers.  the following paragraphs,  describe  few actions that could  taken  maximise the potentiai  mHealth. Four key adoption barriers such  regulatory, economic, structurai and technologicai can limit the benefits  mHealth  Adesina Illuyemi, University  Portsmouth Socio-economic impact  mHealth23Collaboration across the ecosystem Healthcare and telecoms policy makers and regulators need  work with other stakeholders  the mHealth ecosystem  design facilitative policies that streamline the development  mHealth solutions and support their commercialisation  providing solid economic reasons that encourage adoption: Integrate mHealth within nationai healthcare strategies and policy initiatives. Align the development  mHealth solutions with the immediate healthcare priorities  each member state. Help create policies that encourage competition between regionai healthcare providers, making the healthcare systems more performance oriented and less hospitai-centric. Continue building the evidence base  mHealth benefits with relevant industry associations and solution providers. Leverage cloud-based solutions  aggregate the statistics from active mHealth deployments  measure and demonstrate the impact  these solutions  clinicai outcomes and care costs. Bridge regulatory gaps The facilitative policies need   supported   solid regulatory framework that adequately addresses the key concerns  various stakeholders around safety and trust. The following actions can not only help address the regulatory barriers adequately but also the technologicai barriers, since these actions wili facilitate the development  standardised and interoperable mHealth solutions: Raise clarity   medicai device regulation based   proportionate risk-based approach that ensures safety and quality while stimulating innovation and patient access. Clarify data protection legislation   applies  mHealth, ensuring end- user trust and ease  use. Introduce regulations that address the gaps  Generai Data Protection Regulation GPDR and mandate different healthcare providers  share patient data, facilitating optimisation  references across different levels  care and the regionai healthcare providers. Promote technology and data standards  ensure development  interoperable and standardised solutions. Create economic incentives  order  overcome the barriers created  conflicting incentives that healthcare providers are provided with, the policy makers, regulators and payers need  work together : Create incentives that reward healthcare providers for gains achieved from the efficient utilisation  resources enabled  mHealth solutions across populations. Develop innovative and sustainable reimbursement  funding mechanisms that cover the cost  using mHealth solutions and associated devices, thereby- enabling equai access. Support the use  mHealth While the key barriers may  addressed directly  indirectly  executing the steps mentioned above, policy makers, regulators and payers need  ensure that the development and deployment  solutions are optimized and that healthcare providers have adequate support  leveraging mHealth solutions better.  achieve this, they might: Engage patients and healthcare professionals earlier during solution design  continue refinements  exact needs for mHealth solutions and lower change management requirements. Work together with medicai universities, healthcare professionals, patient organisations, and relevant sociai media channels  educate the healthcare providers and patients  the use  mHealth solutions and their benefits. Identify medicai universities and hospitals  pioneers  mHealth  implementation  optimise change management and set  training processes that wider healthcare delivery systems can follow. Identify medicai universities and hospitals  pioneers  mHealth implementation  order  optimise change management and set  training processes that the wider healthcare delivery systems can follow. Centralise the procurement  mHealth solutions  ensure that compliance with established technology and data standards  attained. PwC24Driving collaboration While the various initiatives listed above could drive adoption and make investments  mHealth more efficient, significant collaboration among stakeholders  required  ensure that these steps are executed efficiently and coincide with each other  required. Clearly, policy makers, regulators and payers are best placed  catalyse the actions and involvement  the stakeholders. Hence, they need  lead the initiatives and drive urgency  action.  lack  action and coordination  the form  policies, frameworks and supporting initiatives can either leave the benefits  mHealth underutilised  pushed out too far  time  help the healthcare systems  bridge the gaps that they are  risk  developing. Regulators can ensure that there  public access  data around quality and cost  care  that patients can make decision about their care. They should increase the focus  success and put  place  failure regime. Along with that, they need  create data standards  that information can flow. John Grumitt Vice President, Diabetes  Successfui business models could consist  getting data from cloud based services and collaborating  that the data could  analysed and used. Horst Merkle, Roche Diagnostics Governance  mobile health  one area where government needs  work and invest. Prof Devaka Fernando, Diabetes expert Sheffield Hallam University Socio-economic impact  mHealth25A.  Assumptions Areas  assumption Assumptions Health conditions Chronic conditions: T2DM, CVD and COPD are the conditions considered for assessment. Lifestyle conditions: Obesity, smoking and hypertension have been analysed  these lead  chronic conditions. Ageing population: This has also been analysed   significant proportion  the  population  above  and  poses  major challenge  the region. Criteria for disease selection Chronic and lifestyle conditions have been selected based  factors such  prevalence, Disability Adjusted Life Years DALY loss and mortality contribution  the  region. Ageing population was found relevant because  poses  significant cost burden  the healthcare systems and patients. Our study omitted certain diseases such  cancer and asthma because our healthcare experts opined that mHealth wili not  able  create any significant clinicai improvement  the short term. Areas  mHealth intervention Two broad areas  intervention considered include solutions across the patient pathways and the healthcare systems. Solutions across patient pathways: Areas considered include wellness, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and remote monitoring. Solution across healthcare systems: Areas considered include healthcare practitioner support, healthcare administration and emergency response. Relevant population Wellness and prevention: Population  risk  developing conditions and pouplation with conditions being assessed. Diagnosis: Population  risk who  not have access  diagnosis and population with conditions who are not diagnosed. Treatment and monitoring: Population with conditions who are non-compliant  treatment. The above-mentioned population base has been segmented into basic mobile phone user base and smartphone user base. Adoption factors Telecom penetration rate  used  arrive  the population that could  reached  mHealth. Here, penetration rates for both basic mobile phones and smartphones have been applied  the relevant population. Adoption rate reflects the percentage  the relevant population who wili adopt such mHealth solutions. Two scenarios have been considered here which are  follows: Adoption rate would    2o17   action  taken  encourage . Potentiai adoption rate  2o17  taken   1oo, assuming that fuli adoption wili  realised once the mHealth framework, policies and business models wili  put  place. Adoption rates have been arrived  through primary interviews with healthcare experts. Repeat usage rate has been accounted for based  the assumption that the mHealth application wili take six   months  have meaningfui healthcare impact.  has been validated  healthcare experts  relevant geographies. mHealth benefits Finding across the following areas have been used  quantify and estimate mHealth related benefits: Pilot mHealth projects and their benefits. Tele-health projects and their benefits. -Health project and their benefits. Finai numbers obtained from these findings were further validated and modulated through primary interviews  the relevant geographies. Age group for health conditionsLifestyle conditions: Relevant age groups have been considered for each disease  medicai conditions. . .  years for smoking, hypertension and obesity. Chronic conditions: The age group     years has been considered for T2DM, whereas for COPD and CVD,  years and above have been considered. Ageing population: The age group   years and above has been considered. Treatment cost Historicai treatment costs have been inflation adjusted  order  arrive  current costs where required. Productivity loss Due  absenteeism, productivity loss has been computed over unpaid sick days beyond entitled sick leaves. Due  early retirement, productivity loss has been computed  the years  which  chronic patient retires early. Daily wages and tax rates  each country have been taken into account  calculate productivity loss and loss  government taxes due  absenteeism and early retirement. Hospitalisation days Percentage  hospitalisation and ALOS have been captured from secondary sources. This was further validated  primary interviews from healthcare experts  relevant geographies. Job creation Jobs wili  created for paramedics, trainers and technicai support staff for each mHealth deployment  hospitals. Adverse drug events Preventable adverse drug events cause  major cost burden  the healthcare system. This can  reduced  effective mHealth deployments across hospitals. Extrapolation  benefits for   countriesCalculations have been explained under the Methodology appendix which highlights the factors and steps used for extrapolation. Grouping:   has been divided into three country grouping based  factors such  type  healthcare systems, healthcare spend    GDP and government spending  healthcare. Three countries were then chosen  represent each grouping. Clinicai benefits: The benefits estimated for the representative country  each country grouping have been used for the remaining countries  the grouping. Treatment cost savings: These have been extrapolated and adjusted based  the ratio  per capita healthcare spend  the relevant country and the representative country  that country grouping. Increase  earnings: These have been extrapolated  capturing hourly wages and taxes  each country. Appendices PwC26A.  Methodology Understanding and quantifying region- specific healthcare challenges  arrive  the socio-economic impact  mHealth,  started with the view that for mHealth   effective,  needs  address the challenges and needs  the  region.  gathered data points  relevant challenges such  disease incidence, prevalence, disease related mortalities and the number  people  risk. These healthcare challenges and data points were further validated  primary interviews with healthcare experts  the regions. Further,  identify the socio-economic impact  the disease,  looked into parameters like treatment costs  each disease  each region and the cost burden  early retirement and absenteeism caused  those diseases.  also looked into disease- specific hospitalisation frequency and hospitalisation days  quantify the socio- economic challenge. Identifying the scope  mHealth and capturing benefit data The relevance  mHealth was established against these challenges.  identified two broad areas  interventions such  solutions across the patient pathway and the healthcare system strengthening. These two broad categories were further sub-divided into six areas  intervention solutions across the patient pathways wellness and prevention, diagnosis, treatment and monitoring and healthcare systems emergency response, healthcare practitioner support and healthcare systems strengthening. The following key steps were taken  arrive  the quantified healthcare benefits  mHealth  relevant population base was selected for each condition being assessed. The smartphone and basic user phone penetration was applied  this population  arrive  the totai potentiai users  mHealth solutions. Since mHealth solutions benefit only  used regularly, the percentage  totai potentiai users who would regularly use such mHealth applications was determined  arrive  the relevant number  mHealth users. Further, the percentage  regular mHealth users that could benefit was computed for each solution type and condition. The potentiai benefits estimated for each solution type and condition were then applied  arrive  the overali benefit. Each area and type  benefits  mHealth were estimated based  existing studies, pilots and expert opinion. Arriving  socio-economic estimates  analyse the benefits across the , representative countries  the region were selected. Multiple criteria such  geographic representation, healthcare system type and healthcare funding systems, were used  identify such representative countries.  economic modei was then developed  quantify healthcare challenges and mHealth induced socio-economic benefit  these representative countries. Extrapolation  socio-economic benefits across   countries Each benefit type calculated for  representative country was then extrapolated  the entire  region.  created three country groupings, each grouping represented  the previously selected representative country. Relevant countries were then identified and grouped under each representative country grouping. Criteria such  healthcare spend    GDP, public and private healthcare spend, per capita healthcare spend, healthcare system type were used  identify and group EU27 countries within those groupings. Incidence and disease related healthcare benefits were extrapolated  per the representative country. However, treatment cost savings were calculated based  healthcare expenditure parity between the focus and representative country. Similarly, while computing increase  earnings related benefits, wages and taxes  each country were used  accurately capture socio-economic impact. Approach  quantify socio-economic benefits Quantify major health challenges  the regionIdentify scope  mHealth Analyse potentiai benefit  mHealthTranslate healthcare benefits  socio- economic benefitsScenario analysis Area covered Data analysis  profile healthcare challenges  the region Translation  these challenges  socio- economic challenges Analysis  identify relevant areas for mHealth interventions based  the challenges Prioritisation  these areas based  the goals  multiple players  the mHealth ecosystem  the region Analyse case studies and pilot projects  arrive  estimates  benefits Conduct primary interviews  verify the estimates Convert the healthcare benefits  socio-economic benefits through econometric modeling Parameters varied  under-analyse socio-economic impact  various scenarios  mHealth adoption Source  data Primary interview Secondary sources PwC analysis Primary interview Primary interview Secondary sources PwC analysis PwC analysis Logic used for extrapolation Choose representative countries  each grouping and group  countries  groupingsExtrapolate mHealth benefits Area covered Group  countries into groupings based  status  healthcare systems  various countries mHealth benefits from representative country taken   reference for each grouping Corresponding benefits extrapolated for each member country  each grouping Source  data PwC analysis Primary interview Secondary sources PwC analysis About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Shashank Tripathi India Leader - Strategy and Research Phone:  98196789oo Emaii: shashank. tripathi . pwc. com Mohammad Chowdhury India Leader - Telecom Phone:  9167665544 Emaii: mohammad. chowdhury . pwc. com . Rana Mehta India Leader - Healthcare Phone:  991o511577 Emaii: rana. mehta . pwc. comDavid Wijeratne Associate Director - Strategy and Research Phone:  9818966775 Emaii: david. wijeratne . pwc. com Lokesh Khanna Principai Consultant - Strategy and Research Phone:  9711o31o2o Emaii: lokesh. khanna . pwc. com Acknowledgments  would like  take this opportunity  thank ali the team members for their contribution  the creation and finalisation  this report: Rohit Shankar Siddartha Prasad Ankur Bharti . Amit Talwar Nidhi Jain pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  3o5 - May 2o13 Mhealth. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India