Title: pwc_forging-ties-securing-energy-supply-for-a-stronger-economy
Date Published: 2013-08-30 11:25:33+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_forging-ties-securing-energy-supply-for-a-stronger-economy.pdf
Word Count: 4783
Sentence Count: 407
Average Sentence Length: 18.5

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
energy: 168
oii: 118
india: 110
gas: 67
indian: 45
countries: 41
companies: 40
security: 39
government: 36
sector: 36
world: 30
consumption: 28
imports: 27
domestic: 26
wili: 26
pwc: 25
production: 25
coai: 24
ficci: 23
supply: 22

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.   report with FICCI;  September 2o13 Energy security  India  Internationai collaboration for India  energy security p12 Forging ties Securing energy supply for  stronger economy Foreword Energy security forms the basis  formulating energy policy  every country. For  developing nation like India, energy security, assumes criticai importance, since the projected requirements have   met   environment where domestic energy supplies are limited and the energy needs are   met through imports, amidst the persisting internationai uncertainties.  the pursuit  sustainable development, securing adequate energy supply that  affordable and easily accessible,   major concern both financially and strategically.  address these challenges,  need  enhance the domestic growth drivers, remove structurai constraints and above ali, make ourselves resilient  externai factors like, volatile internationai crude oii prices, economic and geopoliticai uncertainties  the resource-rich nations.  believe the government and the industry together can set  stable and enduring framework  address the energy security concerns.   FICCI, wish  play  catalysing role  address the hydrocarbon related concerns   defined and  phased manner. FICCI through its sustained campaign  Nationai Energy Security endeavours  sensitise ali the stakeholders including policy makers, parliamentarians, industry, civii society, economists and media and suggest  dynamic policy framework for the future.  this regard, FICCI has been organising the Nationai Conference  Energy Security, annually. The 1st conference organised  December 2o11, focused  defining the issue  energy security  the Indian context. The 2nd conference, hosted  December 2o12, focussed  exploring ways  find energy solutions and  debate  the role  each stakeholder  evolving the nationai strategy and coordinated policy response. The 3rd Nationai Conference  Energy Security, being organised  FICCI  association with the Ministry  Externai Affairs, Government  India,  September , 2o13,   step further  address the nationai concern  energy security. The conference aims  promote purposefui collaboration between the industry and the government and the role  diplomacy  securing India  energy security. The knowledge paper Forging ties: Securing energy supply for  stronger economy jointly prepared  FICCI and PwC sets out the current energy scenario  the country, which  characterised  rising energy demand and the price being paid for dependence  imports.  also analyses the impediments  energy security, internationai cooperation and efficient use  available energy.  hope that this paper wili set the context for the deliberations and facilitate   implementing the action points identified during the conference. FICCI looks forward   successfui Conference and commits itself  follow  with action  the conclusions  the deliberations. . . Didar Singh Secretary Generai Federation  Indian Chambers  Commerce Industry Preface The Nationai Conference  Energy Security organised  FICCI  partnership with PwC provides  platform for ali stakeholders  assemble and brainstorm  issues related  energy security while planning  roadmap for the future. The FICCI Hydrocarbon Committee has taken steps  have leaders  spheres  policy making vowing  lend ears  the stakeholder viewpoint and for consultation among implementers. PwC,  the Knowledge Partner, has assisted FICCI  putting together this background paper titled Forging ties: Securing energy supply for  stronger economy. The paper sets out the current energy scenario  the country characterised  rising demand leading  high import dependency and its impact.  also sets out India  position   emerging economy with  insatiable appetite for energy sources.  further discusses the internationai collaboration required for the country  energy security. The resulting challenges  attaining complete energy security have also been analysed.  context  set for deliberations during the conference and encourages conclusions  recommendations and actions forward. PwC  privileged   assisting FICCI  further summarising proceedings, collating recommendations made during the conference and then supporting FICCI  advocating them.  sincerely thank FICCI for providing  this opportunity   the Knowledge Partner for this event. Like always, PwC wili  glad  receive any feedback and suggestions the readers have. Deepak Mahurkar Director, Leader, Oii and Gas Industry PricewaterhouseCoopers India Private Limited PwC4Energy security  India Economic growth and prosperity   country lies  its access   availability  energy. India, home  almost   the world  population, needs energy supplies  meet the Millenium Development Goals, and  sustain the growth  its economy. Energy security  availability  energy when required, easy accessibility  energy for the nation, with acceptable standards  affordable rates. The energy requirements for rapid growth wili create  major challenge since these requirements have   met where domestic energy prices are controlled and world energy prices are high and likely  rise further. Since India  domestic energy production  limited, dependence upon imports wili increase. Import dependence  the case  petroleum has grown   high and  projected   more than   the   Plan 2o12-. Even  the case  coai, import dependence  projected  increase  the growth  thermai generation wili require coai supplies, which cannot  fully met  domestic mines.  regards world energy consumption  2o12,  has witnessed  increase  .  compared  .   2o11. The OECD countries were impacted  the economic crisis and their energy consumption feli  . ,  line with the .  drop  the European Union  and .  drop  North America.  China and India, energy consumption continued  grow steadily  .  and . , respectively whereas energy demand  Japan feli  .   compared  the previous year. Africa and Latin America have also showed  positive trend with  and .  growth, respectively,  2o12.  2o12, India was the fourth-largest energy consumer  the world, with  consumption  563 million tonnes  oii equivalent MTOE after China , 735 MTOE, the  , 2o9 MTOE and the Russian Federation 694 MTOE. Accordingly, the per capita consumption  energy  about 456 kilogramme oii equivalent KGOE  India which  less than one third  the globai average. This  very low  compared  the per capita energy consumption  some other countries, such  Japan , 749 KGOE, South Korea , 422 KGOE, China , o25 KGOE and the  , o36 KGOE.   Statisticai Review June 2o13   Statisticai Review June 2o13, World Bank and PwC analysis Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy5Energy demand scenario Overview  demand The demand for primary energy consumption  the world  expected  grow   CAGR  .  from 2o1o-2o4o whereas during the same period, India  demand for primary energy wili grow  . ; China  . ; Brazii  . ; Mexico, Chile  . .  The demand for primary energy  India wili increase almost three times  2o35  , 516 MTOE from 563 MTOE  2o12. India  also expected  almost double its share  the globai primary energy consumption  almost   2o35.  the near future, the transport sector wili  the second largest consumer  energy  India. The share  this sector wili almost double from   2o1o    2o4o  totai energy consumption  the country. The energy consumption  set  grow highest  the commerciai sector,   CAGR  .  from 2o1o  2o4o. There are three major constituents  the energy sector; oii, gas and coai. Oii Even though severai attempts have been made  boost the domestic production  oii, imports constitute over   our totai domestic oii consumption. The domestic production  almost static over the years due  limited accretion  reserves, delays  commissioning  projects and declining production from existing fields.    Aprii 2o12, India had totai reserves proved and indicated  76o million metric tonnes  crude oii MMT.  The crude oii production wili remain almost stagnant  the 12th Plan.  2o31-, the consumption  expected    the range  35o  486 MMT and the import dependency wili   the range    .  Internationai Energy Outlook, 2o13 and PwC analysis  IEA World Energy Outlook 2o12  Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas End use energy consumption  India MTOE Source: Internationai Energy Outlook, 2o13 India  import dependence  crude oii Source: Indian Petroleum and Naturai Gas Statistics, MOPNG and PPAC Note: Imports include oii used for exported petroleum productsBrazii 2o12: 275,  2o2o: 346,  2o35: 444,  China 2o12: , 735,  2o2o: , 359,  2o35: , 872,  Primary energy demand forecasts MTOE, share  the world Source:  Statisticai Review 2o13 and IEA World Energy Outlook 2o12Brazii ChinaIndia 2o12: 563,  2o2o: 974,  2o35: , 516,  World 2o12: , 4772o2o: , 922 2o35: , 197India World PwC6 Gas  India, both the production and consumption  gas have increased over the years but production started declining after 2o1o mainly due  lower output from the - basin. The consumption  naturai gas has increased over the years and  expected    demand  the future  weli due  its environmentai and economic benefits. India  dependence  imported naturai gas  expected  increase from   2o12    2o21-2o22.  India  energy mix, naturai gas forms  minor part, constituting about   2o12 and expected  increase multifold. Coai The Indian economy  highly dependent  coai   source  energy because  met   its energy needs from coai 2o12. India ranks third  the world  the consumption  coai and its demand  expected  grow further. The consumption has increased   CAGR  .  whereas production has increased   CAGR  .  only from 2oo8-2o12 leaving  gap for imports. Given the strong growth  thermai generation projected  the   Plan, the aggregate demand for coai  the end  the 2o17  likely   4o7 MTOE depending upon the pace  implementation  power capacity.  against this, the domestic output  unlikely  exceed 317 MTOE, leaving  shortfali  over  MTOE.   Statisticai Review 2o13 and Demand Supply Projections for Gas during 12th and 13th Plans Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas   Statisticai Review 2o13 and World Energy Outlook, 2o12   Approach  the 12th Five Year PlanIndia  import dependence  naturai gas Source:  Statisticai Review 2o13 India  import dependence  coai Source:  Statisticai Review 2o13 Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy79 Directorate Generai  HydrocarbonsUnconventionai hydrocarbons Exploration for conventionai hydrocarbons has been almost the sole focus  the oii and gas industry since  began nearly 1oo years ago. However, most  the growth  the supply from today  recoverable hydrocarbon resources  found  unconventionai formations. Unconventionai hydrocarbons include gas hydrates, coai bed methane, and shale oii and gas. India, with the fifth largest proven coai reserves and being the fifth largest coai producer  the world  2o12  per the  Statisticai Review 2o13, holds significant prospects for commerciai recovery  coai bed methane CBM. Prognosticated CBM resource has been estimated   around .  TCM. CBM exploration and exploitation has  important effect  reducing the greenhouse gas effect and  earning carbon credits  preventing the direct emission  methane gas from operating mines  the atmosphere further. Extraction  the CBM through the degassing  coai seams prior  coai mining   cost-effective means  boosting coai production and maintaining safe methane levels  working mines. With respect  oii shale, the current position  that resources are not known with any measure  confidence. Considerable amount  ground work needs   undertaken before the reserves can  established.  per the available data, six basins, Cambay  Gujarat, Assam-Arakan  the north- east India, Gondawana  centrai India,  onshore  Andhra Pradesh, Cauvery onshore and the Indo-Gangetic basins hold shale gas potentiai. Some companies are interested  exploring the Cambay basin  Gujarat, the Assam-Arakan basin  north-east India, and the Gondwana basin  centrai India for shale gas resources, although there has been  commerciai production  publicly released reserve figures. Joshi Technologies made the first shale oii discovery  Cambay Basin  mid-2o1o. The government proposes  unveii  shale gas and oii policy  the near future and  begin  seli shale gas development blocks.  survey carried out  DGH Directorate Generai  Hydrocarbons  1997 has indicated the presence  severai gas hydrate leads and prospects. The totai prognosticated gas resource from the gas hydrates  the country  placed  , 894 TCM. But there are challenges associated with the recovery  methane from these gas hydrates. Absence  representative deepwater gas hydrates field anywhere  the world Gas production rate gas  the production testing  Mallik weli  Canada  permafrost area has yielded very low production rate and cannot sustain more than seven days  production using thermai and depressurisation methods Managing water production rate high amount  water  expected   produced along with the dissociation  hydrates Sand controi since the hydrate reservoirs exist  shallow depths below the sea bed 2oo-4oo mbsf and the sands here would not  consolidated due  absence  overburden pressure Reservoir subsidence and other environmentai hazards Consumption  other fuels  India MTOE Source:  Statisticai Review 2o13Renewable fuels Conventionai energy occupies  major share  the energy mix  India. Other fuels such  nuclear energy, hydroelectricity, other renewable fuels like solar, wind and geothermai, biomass and others form only   the totai primary energy consumption  2o12. Hydroelectricity constituted  and other renewable energy constituted   the totai primary energy consumption  India  2o12. Thus, non-conventionai energy sources have great potentiai  grow  India. Out  ali other energy sources, the consumption  hydroelectricity  the highest. PwC8High trade deficit Widening  CAD Deterioration  India  BOPs Drawdown  forex reservesPrice being paid for dependence  imports Trade balance Refined products export   percentage  totai exports  India has been increasing over the years. The substantiai crude oii import, however, offset   the foreign exchange earned through totai exports  2o12-. The oii trade deficit  India has risen over the years and  accounted for almost   the country  totai trade deficit  2o12-. India  expenditure  oii imports   percentage  GDP has been increasing over the years. The average spending  oii imports has been higher for India  compared  some  the major oii importing countries  the world. The inelastic nature  oii imports implies that the higher the percentage  GDP spent  , the higher the vulnerability  the economy  externai shocks. Impact  economy Due  higher imports, the demand for dollar increases more than its supply, causing the rupee  depreciate. Depreciation   currency  essentially thought    self-correcting measure  boost exports and suppress imports causing the currency  strengthen again. However,  the case  India, this does not happen. The import bili increased  almost   compared with the previous year due   rise  globai crude oii prices and the currency depreciation  2o12-. Though non-oii import shows negative growth, the high growth  oii import causes the import bili  inflate  almost   2o12- and the exports failed  pick  significantly. Ali these ultimately translated into  higher current account deficit, which caused  further decline  the value  the rupee. Oii and non-oii trade deficit billion USD Oii imports  percentage  GDP Impact  high oii imports  Indian economySource: Reserve Bank  India Source: World Energy Outlook, 2o12 Source: Reserve Bank  India and PwC analysisDepreciation  the Indian rupee Almost   drawdown  forex reserves from Aprii 2o13  July 2o13 Impact  imports and exports InflationDeficit  195.  billion USD CAD   .  billion USD Capitai inflows  .  billion USD Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy9The solution The Indian economy has entered into  vicious circle that wili break only  strong measures are taken for reducing trade deficit including measures such  promoting capitai inflows  the economy  bring about  improvement  the trade balance. Given the current trends  domestic oii production, the import dependency  oii  bound   around   its consumption  the next two decades. This wili require  higher percentage  GDP   spent  oii imports, thereby further increasing India  vulnerability  externai shocks. Though the economy cannot  fully insulated against externai shocks,  can reduced  reducing import dependency. Hence,   necessary  explore the possibilities  enhancing the exploration and production  hydrocarbon resources  promoting investment  the sector. Impediments  energy security Domestic production  the foreseen future, 1oo domestic oii production required  India seems    distant possibility. However,  have scope  increase production and bridge the gap   great extent. Almost    available oii has been already explored. Studies depict naturai gas reserves  India remaining largely unexplored.  Similarly, for coai, exploration efforts have been limited, with activities starting  merely 1oo  the 2o8 sanctioned blocks.  the era  easy oii draws   close, new finds wili have   made  hitherto unexplored regions and areas that are difficult  reach. Domestic oii and gas companies are challenged  capabilities  deep-water technologies, etc. This wili necessitate joint ventures, partnerships with globai oii and gas majors and service providers. Thus, our regulatory environment should  conducive enough  attract foreign investments. Indian consumers are artificially insulated from the vagaries  internationai pricing  the government- controlled pricing regime. This leads  inefficient use  energy owing  the lack  appreciation  the reai economic fuei value. Unfortunately, the absence  free markets acts   disincentive  investors, consequently leading   weak supply. The government has been unable  attract investors  the exploration and production   sector due  uncertainties  pricing and allocation  hydrocarbon resources, complexity  granting  approvals and various clearances, interpretation  the terms  production sharing contracts PSCs and other such framework agreements.  meet demand through domestic efforts,    paramount importance that investment  upstream and downstream activities  pursued vigorously. This wili help ensure insulation from energy shortages and hedging against internationai crude oii price volatility.  DGH, Observer Research Foundation 2o12Security  oii and coai imports Since most  the world  hydrocarbon reserves are with the Middle Eastern countries, any internai  externai tension  bound  impact import  these resources. The embargo  Iran has brought focus  the vulnerability  large consumers such  India which imports more than half  its oii and gas from the Middle East  geo-politicai tensions. India has  manage its sea lane security through which much  its energy imports pass. Given India  growing hydrocarbon imports crude oii, LNG, LPG, etc  weli  rise  refinery exports Gasoii, Euro  Gasoline, etc, the security  Indian seas becomes significant for ensuring access  foreign oii and gas  weli  the consuming markets. Additionally, the importance  promoting domestic marine logistics ports, jetties, tankers, etc cannot  ignored. For example, during the trade embargo sanctions  Iran, the Indian government found itself   challenging situation wherein the insurance cover  ships transporting crude oii from Iran was stopped  the  Clubs;   member group which insures around   the world  tankers placing   billion USD limit  individuai claims that involve pollution damage and wreck removai. Further, the emergency cover offered  the public company United India Insurance  Ltd was not accepted. Such instances cali for attention  not only strengthen the existing facilities but also  prepare for exigencies  this nature. With India sourcing its oii and gas supplies from the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, South East Asia and Oceania, the safety and security  energy transportation routes has emerged   second major challenge. Piracy  the Gulf  Aden has become  major globai security issue. Nearly   ship-attacks  this region are  oii tankers. The Indian Navy has been deployed  provide security  Indian and foreign merchant fleets.  far  has safely escorted around , ooo ships. PwC1o Equity oii and coai The Indian government does not participate  acquiring equity assets abroad. Indian public sector units PSUs and private sector companies  abroad  acquire assets  their own strengths. The PSUs  receive support from the government, especially the Ministries  Externai Affairs and Petroleum and Naturai Gas, and the Ministry  Coai for negotiating relevant assets. Usually, this support  reactive, but helps  getting the attention  respective countries and their nationai oii companies. Whereas internationally, governments are known  provide funds, lines  credit, encouraging setting-  infrastructure  the country with hydrocarbons, thus actively assisting  acquiring assets.  thus does not remain  mere commerciai deai between oii companies and host governments.   treated   nationai activity undertaken through their oii companies. During the project  operations phases,   not uncommon for such governments  support their companies  politicai, sociai, regulatory  commerciai instability related risks arise. Indian PSUs have  some cases suffered from loss  concessions, undue taxation, lack  cooperation  locai authorities, tardy responses  host governments  clearances and permissions, and such other challenges with almost zero support from the Indian government. India thus needs  acquire energy assets abroad  enhance its energy security.  part  its energy security strategy, India has entered into cooperative relationships with severai oii-producing countries  Africa and the Middle East.  has also allowed public sector companies such  Oii and Naturai Gas Corporation ONGC and Oii India Limited OIL  secure ownership  oii and gas fields and companies overseas. The government has encouraged companies  acquire overseas upstream assets   way  shield the domestic energy sector from globai price volatility. Indian companies hold large stakes  Sudan  GNOP block and Russia  Sakhalin- project. Recently, Indian firms have also explored assets  the Caspian Sea and Centrai Asia. For example, ConocoPhillips announced that  was selling its stake   north Caspian Sea production sharing agreement  ONGC  late 2o12. Hess Corp announced  similar deai with ONGC for oii fields  Azerbaijan. 11Diplomatic relationships India needs  have its presence felt  the oii and gas producing countries. The government needs  attribute prime importance for having its representatives engage   continuous dialogue with the oii-exporting countries.  needs  encourage  healthy amount  trade with these countries  offering our robust products and services such   software, garments, etc. World  most energy efficient country  2o12: The United Kingdom  - The ACEEE American Councii for  Energy-Efficient Economy, Internationai Energy Efficiency Scorecard The  produces over , ooo USD  GDP per tonne  oii equivalent consumed  primary energy.  has invested significantly  improving energy efficiency through government spending, and its commitment  reducing energy consumption  buildings, industry and transportation sectors has been producing positive results. Each sector has severai government programmes that help advance the generai objectives  reducing energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions. Residentiai and commerciai buildings have  mandatory disclosure  building energy consumption and have implemented mandatory energy performance certificates for ali buildings  sale  lease. These certificates give grades  homes for their current and potentiai energy efficiency. They provide recommendations for cost- effective action  improve building efficiency. The country has made great strides  improve energy efficiency  the industriai sector.  has established  mechanism  monitor, evaluate and report industriai consumption. The   industriai sector consumes the second lowest amount  energy consumption relative  the industriai GDP. The country has  mandatory fuei economy standard  place.   result, its average  road passenger fuei economy  high.  addition  fuei economy standard, the government has put  place severai policies that promote the purchase  fuei-efficient vehicles. The  government has introduced  climate change levy which   tax  the use  energy naturai gas, coai, LPG and electricity that applies  industry, commerce, agriculture and the private sector. This   fund programmes that provide financiai incentives for the adoption  energy efficiency and renewable energy. This study, confirms against perceptions,   emerging  one  the most energy-efficient nations. The  government  efforts  this context need   lauded.  http: www. eia. gov countries cab. cfm? fips  Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy11Efficient use  available energy Energy efficiency  country  prosperity depends  its energy consumption   large extent. Zero-energy-usage  not conservation, efficient use  energy . India ranks fourth  terms  energy demand  the world.    highly dependent  imported oii  meet its energy demand,  raises the question  energy security. Though India  taking steps towards achieving the goai  energy security,  need  emphasise energy efficiency. Immense potentiai exists  energy efficiency, particularly  the use  domestic equipments such  pumps, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and lighting areas. Also, wise energy usage can help cut down air and water pollutants, contributing   sustainable environment.    cruciai importance for the developing and the developed nations  realise that most energy resources are exhaustible. Hence the only alternative would   additionai emphasis  not just acquiring these resources but their efficient and optimai use and management starting  the most micro levei   household. Optimising renewable energy  India Developing  solar cum biomass based cooling system for village-levei cold storage:  vapour absorption machine wili  combined with  biomass gasifier system and  field  solar collectors, slated  preserve fruits and vegetables  cold storage. This source  energy can also supply electricity  the village levei.  the demand for power grows exponentially and conventionai fuei based power generating capacity grows arithmetically, SPV based power generation can   source  meet the expected shortfali. Especially  rurai, far- flung areas where the likelihood  conventionai electric lines  remote, SPV power generation  the best alternative. Solar cookers can  used  cook food  rurai and semi-urban area yet solar cookers have not found the acceptance and popularity hoped for. Promoting renewable energy Renewable sources  energy such  sunlight, wind, rain, tides and geo-thermai heat, are abundantly available  India.  against fossii fuels, they  not emit green-house gases. Switching over  renewable energy sources  one  the major ways  mitigating climate change. The government has formulated various policies  encourage businesses and instali more renewable energy capacity.   result   encouraging investment climate, wind power has grown rapidly  the country. From about    1992, the totai installed capacity has reached almost , ooo  this year. Biomass, another cruciai energy resource, too has witnessed substantiai growth  the last few years. The government has now set  target  achieving solar energy installations  , ooo   the year 2o2o. Renewable energy today constitutes  significant part  India  energy mix and  set  grow further  the coming years. One per cent  the totai energy mix was contributed  renewable energy sources  2oo2. Various subsidies for the  sector including accelerated depreciation benefits for Indian wind energy sector; the share  renewable energy  India  energy mix has grown drastically. From   2oo7,  almost grew  twice that size  2o12. Share  renewable energy  India  energy profile Source: MNRE and CEAThermal2oo2:  2oo7:  2o12:  Hydro 2oo2:  2oo7:  2o12:  Nuclear 2oo2:  2oo7:  2o12:  RES 2oo2:  2oo7:  2o12:  PwC12Internationai collaboration for India  energy security India has made path breaking agreements with countries such  Sudan, Russia, Mozambique, etc. ONGC Videsh Ltd OVL has invested over .  billion USD  the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company GNPOC  Sudan  2oo3. Annually the OVL  blocks provide approximately .  million tonnes  crude oii. OVL also acquired Sakhalin-,  large oii and gas field  Russia  July, 2oo1. The company holds  stake  Sakhalin- block, with  investment  .  billion USD and Imperiai Energy  2oo9   totai cost  .  billion USD. Indian public sector companies have been involved  many signature deals.  consortium  Indian PSUs--ONGC Videsh, Oii India, and Indian Oii Corporation has acquired two development blocks located  Carabobo area  Orinoco Heavy Oii Belt, Venezuela. Indian private sector companies are also active  acquiring oii and assets abroad  solo and consortium basis both. Videocon Hydrocarbon Holdings,  wholly owned subsidiary  Videocon Industries, and Bharat PetroResources Ltd,  unit  BPCL hold  each  Rovuma basin  Mozambique. OVL and Oii India recently acquired stake  Mozambique gas field from Videocon Industries. OVL  also close  acquire stake from Anadarko subject  other partner  consent. OIL has properties  Libya, Gabon, Iran, Yemen, Nigeria, Egypt, and Venezuela. Reliance, through its Reliance Exploration and Production DMCC arm, has seven oii and gas conventionai overseas blocks.  has assets  Yemen two, Peru two, Australia one and Colombia two, besides shale gas assets  the . India has collaborated weli with oii-rich countries but has  long way   stili. China has successfully acquired assets almost ali over the world.  terms  seeking cooperation from energy-rich countries, China, Malaysia and South Korea are much ahead  . The deai success rate  considerably low  India compared  China. The Chinese government  involved  almost ali deals facilitating  from ali angles. India needs  have  sharper strategy  aid its companies  acquiring assets abroad. The Indian government has  visualise  opportunity before other countries .  have the potentiai  acquiring better prospects  the Middle Eastern countries due  physicai proximity, Russia  our old ally, Brazii member  BRIC, Latin America, Argentina, etc. The government needs  support both the public and private oii and gas companies while acquiring assets abroad.  needs  guide them, make them think innovative; encourage them   wherever they see molecules and where production  economic. Indian oii companies IOCs have  connect with other nationai oii companies NOCs  the world. Finally, Indian oii companies need  have more autonomy. While  have severai challenges  internationai collaboration, our relationships with countries such  Mozambique, , Australia, Myanmar, Iraq, etc are commendable. Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy13FDI  oii and gas FDI policies The existing FDI policies are liberai for the oii and gas sector. Recently, the FDI policy for the sector was changed. The FDI cap for the sector was left unchanged  ; however foreign investment    wili  longer require FIPB approvai. Hundred per cent FDI  allowed  petroleum products, exploration, gas pipelines and marketing and retaii through the automatic route. Current status  inward investments From Aprii 2ooo  March 2o13, the oii and gas sector has received FDI  about .  billion USD. This sector received   totai FDI received  2oo7-, which was encored   2o11-. The FDI  oii and gas and totai FDI  ali sectors were observed   the highest  2o11-. The refinery sector has attracted the maximum FDI out  totai oii and gas investment  the country. The approvai   FDI via the automatic route  PSU refineries  bound  have major positive implications including, surge  foreign capitai, access   easy investment route and technicai advantage  the Indian PSUs. This allows them  collaborate with foreign entities with the latest technology and improve their comparative advantage  the globai markets significantly. Views  internationai companies The oii and gas sector provides comparatively easy access  foreign players  India.  terms  major internationai oii companies participation, British Petroleum  acquired   RIL  share  the KGD6 gas field for .  billion USD  2o11. Royai Dutch Sheli has been active  the LNG business  India, owning the Hazira LNG terminai commissioned  2oo5 Hazira, 2o12. However, the overali interest  major IOCs  the Indian upstream oii and gas sector remains low due  persisting issues remaining unresolved, including  distorted pricing mechanism, under-utilisation  domestic resources, slow decision-making, over-governance, delayed judiciai proceedings, policy instability, etc. Some recurring themes  stated  internationai companies about doing business  the Indian oii and gas sector include the following: Infrastructure related  marketing  petroleum products and naturai gas, naturai gas pipelines, LNG regasification infrastructure, market study and formulationCurrent FDI policy  the petroleum sector, subject  sectorai policies  and  Refining Infrastructure FDI equity 1oo  for PSUs without divestment  dilution  domestic equity  existing PSUs 1oo for private organisations 1oo Route Automatic Automatic route for PSU partnership recently Automatic route for private firms Automatic FDI trends  Indian   sector Source: Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas Although India does not have substantiai resources that are likely  attract globai firms, internationai oii and gas companies stili remain interested  investing  India. Such investments are known  face various hurdles for permissions. The government approvai takes  lot  time which affects the deals  this industry.  disturbs the foreign players.  strong case  point would  the delay  government approvals for Vedanata Resources purchase   controlling stake  Cairn India Ltd from Scottish explorer Cairn Energy Plc. Territoriai disputes between neighbouring countries affect the business  the companies. For . . Santos Internationai Operations Pvt Ltd had won two blocks  the sixth round  NELP. These two blocks,  the Bay  Bengai, cover  area  , 5oo  , and India and Bangladesh both have claimed territoriai rights  the region. The Foreign Ministry has taken  the issue with the Bangladesh authorities, but not much has been achieved  yet. The government does not compensate the companies for delays. Even  the Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas provides the permission but due  other ministries the projects get delayed. For . . Canadian operator GeoGlobai has postponed its investments tili the next financiai because the Home and Civii Aviation Ministries had refused  PwC14grant the company permission for aeriai surveys  help determine the geology  its two blocks  the Naxai-prone region  Maharashtra. BHP Billiton Petroleum had  stop exploration work  its  offshore blocks, off the west coast near Mumbai, after the Indian Navy objected  the company carrying out surveys  the navy  practice areas. This  despite the Defence Ministry clearing these blocks for survey and initiation  work. The Oii Ministry  aware  the problems the foreign explorers are facing. The Ministry asked for  inter-ministeriai group   set   clear the maze. Security  oii imports Dependence  oii exporting countries India imports almost   its crude oii requirement. Saudi Arabia  India  largest supplier, providing about   oii imports. Approximately   India  imported oii came from Middle East countries  2o12. The second biggest source  imports  Africa , with the majority  that oii coming from Nigeria. Importance  the Middle East and South America Almost   the world  oii reserves are available  the Middle East, South and Centrai America. Seventeen per cent  the oii reserves  the world are situated  Venezuela, placing   the topmost position  terms  these reserves. India imports almost   its oii requirement from Middle East. Due   and  sanctions over Iran, India wili have  link with other countries  the Middle East for importing oii. Iraq has promised  supply more oii for its growing needs and Saudi Arabia has maintained its continuous exports. India  crude oii imports  source, 2o12 Source:  Energy Information Administration Due  politicai instability  the Middle East and increasing domestic demand for energy, India  keen  decreasing its dependency  OPEC  meet its oii demand, and increasing its energy security.   result the quantity  oii from Latin America has gone  very significantly. The result  this strategy can  seen with Venezuela soon emerging    significant supplier. ONGC Videsh, Indian Oii Corp, and Oii India have purchased stake   large Venezuelan oii field, Carabobo-. Reliance has developed  long-term partnership buying crude oii from Mexico, Venezuela, Ecuador, and Brazii. India also imports coai from Latin America, despite its plentifui domestic reserves. Proven oii reserves  the world 2o12 Source:  Statisticai Review 2o13 Indian oii companies have important assets  Sudan, Nigeria, Libya and Egypt. Angola and Nigeria are major suppliers  crude.  Sudan, they have investments   pipeline.  important part  India  strategy   diversify its import basket. Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy15Diplomatic relationships with oii exporting countries India has strategised its diplomatic relationship towards the oii exporting countries based  non-intervention.  has used soft power  trade diplomacy  expand ties with ali such states - regardless  their domestic politics and their historicai  sectarian rivalries with one another.   eager  enhance its ties with Saudi Arabia   influences the strategies  other oii exporting countries  the world. India provided 1oo million USD  renovate Iran  Chabahar port, which  uses  ship goods  Afghanistan. Indian elites and businesses are keen  pursuing opportunities  investment, sale  consumer goods and tourism  gulf countries. However,   seen   alert with respect  its dealing with Iran now. India has  maritime security arrangement  place with Oman and Qatar.  2oo8,  landmark defence pact was signed, under which India committed its military assets  protect Qatar from externai threats. There has been progress   proposed deep-sea gas pipeline from Qatar, via Oman,  India.  January 2oo6, Saudi Arabia and the Indian government signed  agreement forging  strategic energy partnership that was termed the Delhi Declaration.  provides for  reliable, stable and increased volume  crude oii supplies  India through long-term contracts. Initiatives  the Ministry  Externai Affairs, India  new division  energy security was created within the Ministry  Externai Affairs MEA  the government  India  2o11 and was designated  the nodai point for energy security related matters involving coordination with line ministries, the Planning Commission, Indian missions and posts abroad, internationai organisations and foreign missions. The overarching theme  its mandate   securing equity investment and bilaterai energy deals  energy exporting countries  Africa, Latin America, Centrai Asia and South East Asia. The Ministry  Externai Affairs need  pay greater attention  deepening politicai exchanges,  weli  strengthening  economic and commerciai linkages with energy surplus countries.  sustained diplomatic intervention and follow- with foreign governments with regard  efforts  our corporate both  the public sector and private sector,  acquire energy assets overseas  required. The oii PSUs have sought the MEA  help  specific projects and have given suggestions, including setting  trade promotion activities  oii rich countries,  help companies bid more effectively for oii blocks. Among the suggestions made  the MEA are  take  leaf from China  policy  combining energy investments with aid and export credits. China  aggressive policy includes helping oii companies compete effectively  combining aid with energy investments  many African and Latin American countries. Though India does not have the resources that China can muster for such  strategy,  was felt that there   need  follow  more calibrated approach. Energy diplomacy must  conducted  synergy with the domestic efforts  ensure energy security for the country. The government wili need  increasingly enter into alliances and partnerships with key nations  Asia, Africa, Latin America, etc  diversify the energy supply base and improve long-term supply security. Now,  the world, trade wili not only depend  the business profitability but relationships  weli. India needs  have open relations with the energy surplus countries  the world.  wili benefit  actively participating  the energy rich countries growth and development matters too. India should have certain trade agreements with them ensuring the security  energy for  and exporting the goods required  them  return. The government needs  building strong economic partnership with hydrocarbon-rich countries. Oii and gas today are not mere commodities   traded freely; they are often used  countries  meet their politicai objectives. Diplomatic intervention becomes essentiai because many  the oii and gas assets are with nationally owned companies. The quest for overseas oii assets  with the understanding that ultimately the world has  follow  interdependence modei rather than  independence modei  the field  energy. PwC16Dimensions  equity oii and coai Financiai viability: Not the only parameter With such  huge energy deficit  the country, India cannot afford  acquire assets abroad with the sole evaluation parameter  financiai viability. Indian energy companies wili need the government  support while biding for energy assets abroad. The companies bid  meet the threshold returns which seldom allow winning assets.  such cases, the government has  scope  step   sweeten the deai  giving   sociai, infrastructurai  economic angle.  can provide the required sociai support and infrastructure, etc  the country where the asset  based  funding support  our companies  they are short  financiai viability. Indian government can help the companies  dealing with its counterpart  the other countries  putting diplomatic influence  the deai. Energy surplus countries are increasingly beginning  leverage their resources for promoting infrastructure development  their countries and  wili  important for not only focus  developing more intensive politicai contacts with those countries through high levei exchanges but also  encourage Indian companies for securing greater involvement  capacity-building and infrastructure development  those countries. Capacity building has become  necessary aspect  energy deals. Locai state companies should  major stakeholders. Tapping into energy resources  countries that  not have sound oii and gas infrastructure and helping them establish their own energy industries wili bring about  win-win situation where both are able  share the benefits.  facilitate this task,  should  prepared  leverage more effectively instruments such  the concessionai lines  credit and technicai assistance. Recognising the domination  internationai oii companies India should take initiatives where competition  minimai even  that means  high risk. The risk factor may  managed  soliciting strategic support from the government  the host countries. The government  turn should  insured  financiai assistance and investments. Thus state-backed finance deals have been cruciai. Forging ties, Securing energy supply for  stronger economy17Where  the future  coai and oii? While the efforts  Indian energy companies are laudable, there  stili  extra mile   covered  our firms    par with globai competition. Domestic oii and gas PSUs wili need  increase their operation scales, innovating along the way. They have   more fleet-footed  making use  globai opportunities, both  the supply and demand side.  can  longer  complacent and must learn  think strategically,  think ahead and  act swiftly and decisively. The accelerated demand for energy makes  imperative for India  garner assured and continuous supply  energy  reasonable prices through internai efforts and acquiring internationai acreages. Can PSUs and private companies collaborate? Public-private partnership  the key  energy security for most countries. The fiscai incentives provided  the government clubbed with the technologicai innovations  the private companies may result  effective public-private partnership. Trust  the cornerstone  any relationship especially when the public and private players, with seemingly conflicting interests, come together  explore the naturai resources  the country. Both the public and private sector should collaborate  secure oii equity overseas. The government  their part must facilitate and encourage such partnerships and aggressively pursue the strategy  acquiring overseas oii and gas assets. Ensuring India  energy security requires active participation from Indian industry, both public and private sector, with support from the government  secure fuei supply  predictable and affordable prices. Public-private partnership and domestic energy companies should  permitted  enter into joint ventures  create the financiai leverages required  successfully bid for overseas investments. About FICCI Established  1927, FICCI  one  the largest and oldest apex business organisations  India. FICCI  history  closely interwoven with India  struggle for independence, industrialisation and emergence  one  the most rapidly growing globai economies. FICCI has contributed  this historicai process  encouraging debate, articulating the private sector  views and influencing policy.  not-for-profit organisation, FICCI  the voice  India  business and industry. FICCI draws its membership from the corporate sector, both private and public, including MNCs; FICCI enjoys  indirect membership  over , , ooo companies from various regionai chambers  commerce. FICCI provides  platform for sector specific consensus building and networking and  the first port  cali for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Our Vision:   the thought leader for industry, its voice for policy change and its guardian for effective implementation. Our Mission:  carry forward our initiatives  support  rapid, inclusive and sustainable growth that encompasses health, education, livelihood, governance and skili development; and  enhance the efficiency and globai competitiveness  the Indian industry and  expand business opportunities both  domestic and foreign markets through  range  specialised services and globai linkages. For more information, log onto www. ficci. com Contacts Vivek Pandit Senior Director Head Energy Federation  Indian Chambers  Commerce and Industry vivek. pandit ficci. comGayatri Prabhakar . Deputy Director - Energy Federation  Indian Chambers  Commerce and Industry Contacts Deepak Mahurkar Leader, Oii and Gas PricewaterhouseCoopers India Pvt Ltddeepak. mahurkar . pwc. comNitu Singh Knowledge Manager, Oii and Gas PricewaterhouseCoopers India Pvt Ltdnitu. singh . pwc. comAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  Data Classification: DCo: For generai use only This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - August 2o13 Forging ties. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India