Title: pwc_looking-ahead-securing-energy-through-clean-technologies
Date Published: 2013-10-25 10:10:17+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_looking-ahead-securing-energy-through-clean-technologies.pdf
Word Count: 6686
Sentence Count: 600
Average Sentence Length: 17.45

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
power: 181
gas: 149
energy: 100
state: 95
solar: 93
capacity: 88
karnataka: 79
projects: 65
per: 56
naturai: 55
generation: 54
based: 50
wind: 44
india: 40
inr: 38
addition: 36
renewable: 35
plants: 35
demand: 33
wili: 33

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Looking ahead Securing energy through clean technologies www. pwc.  CII Karnataka Conference  Power - October 2o13  PwC CII Karnataka conference  Power 3India  strong economic growth  the last decade has placed enormous demand  its energy resources.  spite  having the fifth largest electricity generation capacity  the world, the country faces  huge demand-supply mismatch. Though India  per capita energy consumption has increased  .  annually during the period 2oo6-2o13, the levei  per capita consumption  significantly lower than the world average 2977 kWh  2o11 and the nationai levei target  , ooo kWh set  the government. The country  lagging far behind its BRICS Brazii, Russia, India, China and South Africa peers and for India  achieve its targeted growth, electricity wili play  vitai role. Source: World Bank open dataSetting the context India  per capita consumption  over 2oo short  the world average. This deficit needs   considered when  comes  deciding the future course  action  terms  policymaking, investment  technology and any other support required for the power sector. Capacity addition  the country has not been able  match the increasing power demand. During the   Five Year Plan, nearly , ooo megawatt   new generation capacity was created, which  weli below the initiai plan target  around , ooo . Lower than required capacity addition, fuei shortages, poor monsoon, etc have resulted   situation  power deficit  the country. The totai deficit faced  the regions  northern, eastern, western, and north-eastern NEWNE grid was .   FY13 and has witnessed  improving deficit situation. The southern region has witnessed worsening power deficit over time and  the most affected region with .  energy deficit  FY13. The Integrated Energy Policy IEP forecasts  need for 425 giga-watt   installed capacity byFY 2o22  meet India  electricity requirements  compared  the current capacity  227 . Coming  the generation mix, India  power sector has been traditionally dependent  coai  its chief energy source. Fifty-eight per cent  the installed capacity  India  coai based and around Sixty seven percent  this added  the   Plan was coai based. Today, India imports substantiai quantities  gas, oii and coai  order  meet its growing energy demand. The increasing dependence  imported fuels may create  serious threat  the future fuei security  the country.    positive sign that the contribution  renewable sources  showing considerable improvement. Currently, they form .   the totai installed capacity  2o13. The contribution  gas based power generation has remained constant and currently, they form .   the totai installed capacity  2o13. Source wise installed capacityPer Capita Electricity Consumption Dependence  imported energy Source: CEA monthly reports  PwCClean energy  role  bridging the gap  the country has  add another 2oo   2o22,  has  option but  explore and promote aggressively ali possible generation sources. Going forward,   expected that coai based power plants wili continue  play  major role and wili   leading source  power generation. However,  addition  investing  base load power plants through coai, the country needs  target capacity from clean energy resources and benefit from the specific advantages they bring . Apart from being environment friendly, renewable energy sources can help the country improve energy security, reduce burden  imports and therefore the economy, and provide decentralised solutions among other benefits. Owing  increased imports  oii and coai, the country has seen  increasing current account deficit  the past few years. High current account deficit  one  the key reasons for the depreciation  the Indian currency  the recent past. Reliance  renewable energy  therefore not only important from the perspective  energy security but also from the perspective  stabilising the economy  way  reducing fossii fuei imports.  Strategic plan for new and renewable sector The country has immense renewable energy potentiai. The Ministry  New and Renewable Energy MNRE estimated the potentiai for renewable energy generation capacity excluding solar   around , ooo  out  which , 5oo   wind, , ooo   smali hydro power and , 7oo   bio-power . However, the Centre for Wind Energy Technology -WET  2o12, has reassessed India  wind power potentiai  1o2  considering higher hub height   . Various other studies have found potentiai  the range  , oo6  for -meter hub heights  , 121  for 12o-meter hub heights and considering more land availability. Source: Energy Statistics 2o13In order  address the shortage, the Planning Commission has set  target  , 425    achieved  the  Plan period 2o12-2o17. The projected capacity addition includes hydro capacity  , 897  and nuclear capacity addition  , 3oo .  far  gas based energy  concerned, the Ministry  Power MoP Centrai Electricity Authority CEA considering the uncertain availability  domestic gas, has issued  advisory  ali developers not  consider any new gas based power plants tili 2o15-. The existing gas based projects are struggling  operate  fuli capacity owing  the unavailability  domestic gas. For the time being, gas based projects have ali been either put  hold  are not fully operationai. This reflects  the lack  any significant capacity addition from gas based plants. Average weekly INR USD bid rate Current account deficit  IndiaRenewable energy generation potentiai   Gas based power stations: PLF January 2oo8 .  January 2o1354.  June 2o13 . 62Source: CEA CII Karnataka conference  Power 5On the other hand, grid interactive renewable capacity addition  about , ooo   targeted for the  Five Year Plan.  comprises  , ooo  from wind energy, , ooo  from solar energy, , 1oo   smali hydro and the balance primarily from bio mass. Support  the form  fiscai incentives, tax holidays, depreciation allowances, and 1oo FDI allowance are provided  the state  weli  centrai governments  bring about the desired growth  renewable energy capacities. While policy initiatives are helping renewables play  prominent role, the market factors such  grid parity  tariffs and evolved off-take markets are also contributing  increased significance. Renewable energy installed capacity grew   CAGR  around  over the last five years 2oo7- with wind energy leading  terms  capacity addition. Renewable energy has registered  growth   since 2o1o. Solar energy has also geared   the last few years, registering  impressive growth   installed capacity  .     July 2o13 from    Aprii 2o1o. However, overali renewable energy capacity addition  the last two years has been significantly slower than expected. The capacity addition  FY13 feli short  the MNRE target  atleast 1ooo . FY14  also expected  fali short  the targets with only 835  added tili July 2o13.  programme Target for FY14 Totai deployment  FY14 tili July 2o13Cumulative achieve- ment upto --2o13 Wind power 25oo 6o8.  19661.  Smali hydro power 3oo .  37o6.  Biomass power 1o5 - 1264.  Bagasse cogen 3oo - 2337.  Waste  power  - .  Solar power SPV 11oo 152.  1839 Totai 4325.  835.  289o5.  Source: MNRELack  clarity  generation based incentives GBI and withdrawai  accelerated depreciation  benefits for the wind sector are the key reasons for lower than normai capacity addition.  the other hand, the capacity addition from solar power sources has been impressive  the last year. Industry believes that  order  address the power-deficit situation  the country going forward, the government needs  encourage investment  clean technologies through continuous support  the form  fiscai incentives, policy certainty and established processes  increase ease  project execution.  PwCKarnataka, one  the fastest growing states and  leading investment destination has  totai installed power generation capacity  .  gigawatt  registering  compounded annuai growth rate CAGR  .  during 2oo8-2o13. Coai based power generation contributes the maximum with its share  around . . The state with 3599  has the second largest hydei capacity  the country after Andhra Pradesh. The state doesn  have any gas based power generation. The share  renewable energy  the overali capacity mix today   terms  Karnataka stands   impressive . . Karnataka  one  the top four states with installed renewable energy capacity  357o . Tamii Nadu leads the list with  capacity  7491.   followed  Maharashtra and Gujarat. Source: CEA monthly reports The energy deficit  the state has increased from .   FYo8  around .   FY13  the installed capacity increased   CAGR  .  while the demand increased  .  during the same period. The state has  energy demand  , 274  against energy demand met  , o44  resulting   deficit  923o   FY13. Karnataka Energy security challenges The deficit without considering the energy purchased from short-term sources  actually . . The 18th Electric Power Survey EPS  India conducted  the CEA has forecast the energy requirement growing from 66274   FY13  1o8o12   FY22 growing   CAGR  . . Similarly, peak demand requirement  expected  grow   CAGR  .   Karnataka and  peak demand  , 4o3   forecast  2o22 against  peak demand  , 124   2o13. The Centre for the Study  Science, Technology and Policy CSTEP  behalf  the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission KERC has prepared  roadmap for the power sector  Karnataka. The supply capacity  the state has been projected  the CSTEP after considering the existing and planned capacity addition  the state and also based  the data provided  the Power Company  Karnataka Limited PCKL about the current status  projects  weli  expected plant commissioning dates. The installed capacity  expected  reach , 632   2o17 and , o83   2o22 against current installed capacity  , 818 .  per the CSTEP, significant energy and peak deficit  expected  continue  the next few years. Source: CSTEP Report for KERCSource: CEA Monthly Reports The state experienced  peak deficit  .   FY13 and around 1363   demand was unmet. The deficit the state faced last year can  attributed  fuei shortages, fuei quality issues, inadequate monsoon and less than required capacity addition. Dependence  monsoon Karnataka  dependent  hydei power   significant extent . . around   power generated  the state. While the generation from hydro power  cheaper and cleaner than other sources, the overdependence can impact the energy supplying capability   bad monsoon year. Lower than expected monsoon  2o12 took  heavy toli  the state  there was significant drop  the power generation  hydei plants. The deficit resulted  scheduled and unscheduled power cuts. The monsoons  2o13 came   huge relief with the state receiving  higher than normai rainfali. Power generation from the hydei plants has doubled  July and August  compared  the last year. Installed capacity  Karnataka Expected capacity addition   Energy and Peak Deficit  Karnataka CII Karnataka conference  Power 7Source: SRLDC monthly reports  spite  better monsoon and  improvement  the fuei situation for thermai plants, the state suffered  energy deficit  3291  .   the period  Apr-August 2o13 against  deficit  3561  .   the previous year. Similarly, the peak deficit observed during Apr-August 2o13  1678  .   against 186o  .   the previous year. Short-term power purchases Karnataka  dependence  short-term power purchases   way  address energy deficit has increased over the years from  million units  2oo8  , o47 million units  2o13.  spite  the increase  short-term power purchases, the state stili had  energy deficit  932o million units  2o13. One positive for Karnataka  this regard  the drop  short-term power price over the years from the high  INR per kWh  2oo8  .  INR per kWh  2o13. But this price  stili  higher than the average power purchase cost  the state utilities. According  the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited  BESCOM website, the current arrangements . . from  August 2o13   June 2o15 for short-term power were entered into  tariffs ranging from .  INR including Point  Connection charges  .  INR per unit. While the trend here  that   decreasing nature, short-term power costs can only rise  the near future given the fuei shortages experienced  the country. Hence,   important for the state  look   more long-term strategy  secure energy and improve reliability than depend  short-term sources. Power curtailment and its effect  industries Consumers  Karnataka were affected badly  2o12-2o13 because  the power deficit. Consumers faced  much  six hours  scheduled power-cuts daily along with numerous unscheduled ones. Businesses which were already suffering from sluggish demand due  the economic slowdown were forced  either cut down production  use captive power generation  purchase expensive power from the exchange due  the power cuts. The cost  power generation with diesei  heavy furnace oii  around three  four times more expensive than grid power. This   addition  the capitai cost incurred  purchasing generation equipment and inverters. Industriai consumers today consider having power backup   necessity and are ready  incur the capitai and operating costs  ensure reliability. Because  the power-deficit situation  the southern region and insufficient grid connectivity with the northern grid, the spot prices  the power exchange for  region Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and  region Tamii Nadu and Kerala are significantly higher than the prices  the remaining parts  the country. Cost per unit and volume  short-term energy purchasedPerformance  Karnataka hydei plants  MUMonth Load shedding  Energy curtailed  Energy deficit Peak deficit January- 25oo 858 .  .  February- 27oo 812.  .  .  March- 25oo 1o97 .  .  Aprii- 28oo 1213.  .  .  May- 18oo 665 .  .  June- 125o 457.  .  .  July- 135o 45o.  .  .  August- 14oo 457.  .  .  Source: CEA monthly reports Source: KERC  PwCBridging the gap Taking into consideration the projects planned for execution  the future, the state  expected  add 5519  from centrai generating stations and 5533  from Karnataka Power Corporation Limited KPCL sources and IPPs  FY22.  spite  the major initiatives taken  the KPCL  augment the capacity with newer projects, Karnataka  expected  face high deficits tili 2o18. Karnataka   state has  fossii fuei resources. When  comes  conventionai power plants, the state has  import fossii fuels coai  gas for its power projects. Karnataka, with its ecologically sensitive western coastline poses  challenge  setting  thermai power plants based  imported fuei. Transporting from the neighbouring states wili not only lead  increase  power generation costs  the long run but wili also involve logistics issues. The state however  endowed with immense naturai resources which support renewable power generation. The state  estimated  have , 593  wind power potentiai  8om hub height and receives  impressive globai solar radiation  the range  .  and .  kWh perm2 during summer, .  and .  kWh perm2 during monsoon, and .  and .  kWh per  during winter. Additionally, the state has immense biomass and smali hydro resources. When compared  other states, Karnataka also has significant arid land which can  used  set  renewable energy projects.  per the industry, Karnataka  strongly placed when compared  other states  terms  its ability  manage the intermittency problem caused  infirm power sources. Solar power can meet the daytime load and wind power can contribute during the night peak and off peak load. The state has  abundance  hydro power which can kick   allow smooth transition and maintain grid stability. Apart from being environment-friendly, renewable based projects also have shorter project gestation periods compared  conventionai energy projects. The typicai gestation period   conventionai power plant  three  four years, whereas solar and wind projects need anywhere between six   months assuming the necessary clearances are  place. The state  promoting wind and solar power plants can address the energy deficit problem   faster and more efficient way. Most  the capacity addition planned  the state and allocations from centrai stations are based  coai. Finding  alternative  manage peak load and energy requirements   vitai requirement for the state.  gas based generation  most flexible  terms  frequent and faster starts and stops  compared  coai based plants, which can address the significant peak deficits envisaged, and   important  use this flexibility. GAIL  , ooo  pipeline laid out  help industries  the Belgaum-Dharwad-Tumkur-Bangalore belt can  leveraged  build gas based projects along the pipeline. PCKL has already planned three 7oo  projects under Case  route along the pipeline. The utilities  the state also use the pondage based hydro plants  order  manage energy requirements during summer. The state should look  use the uniqueness offered  each  these sources   effective manner  meet the needs  the state.   interaction with the regulator,  was suggested that utilities should intelligently mix and use the flexibility offered  gas and pondage based hydro plants along with the infirm power from wind and solar plants  bridge the demand- supply gap  the state. This supply side management coupled with effective peak power pricing framework for power from gas plants wili help the state save significant costs  the same time helping  successfully address its energy security challenges. CII Karnataka conference  Power 9Karnataka  one  the wind-rich states  India and has  potentiai  around  . Currently  capacity  2214  has been installed  the state. There has been  uniform capacity addition with around 225  per annum from 2oo5, whereas some other states have seen huge growth  installed capacity  recent years. Abundance  resources   recent study conducted  the -STEP, identifies various wind rich areas after considering various land categories, which can  used constructively  enhance the state  wind energy capacity. The districts  Bellary, Chitradurga, Chamrajnagar and parts  Kolar, Chikballapur, Hassan, Haveri, Gadag, Koppai and Bijapur have been identified  locations with the highest wind potentiai  Karnataka. The following pictures depict the wind speed densities WPD  identified  -STEP. Promising investment destination Wind power  Karnataka Source: Center for Study  Science, Technology and Policy -STEP The various alternatives have been constructed based  the utilisation the suitable waste land and scrub forests for the development  wind power. Hub height  Conservative  Moderate  Theoreticai maximum  8om , 4oo , 78o , , 3oo 1oom , 8oo , ooo , , 2oo 12om , 6oo , ooo , , ooo  concluded  CSTEP,  Karnataka can leverage  the scrub forests and wastelands  addition  the existing areas  higher hub heights and greater capacity utilisation factor CUF, the state has the potentiai   the among the largest  terms  installed wind capacity. Pioneer state with attractive policies but has witnessed slowdown Karnataka introduced preferentiai tariff framework  2oo4, which was  key enabler for investments  wind power projects  the state. The initiai tariff set  .  INR per unit  January 2oo5. This was comparatively higher than the offerings  other wind rich states. Thus, the tariff was later revised to3.  INR per unit for the controi period 2oo9-. However, with the wind tariffs remaining stagnant for such  long controi period, the state was unable  address the changing market dynamics. The Karnataka Renewable Policy 2oo9-  formulated under the supervision  Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited KREDL, targeted additionai capacity  2969   2o14,  which only  approximate 12oo  has been added tili 2o13. This slow nature  capacity addition indicates that the policy framework and the tariffs have been unable  encourage investments  the sector for the past five years. Karnataka wind capacity   Locations with WPD 2ooW     hub heightLocations with WPD 2ooW   1oo  hub heightLocations with WPD 2ooW   12o  hub height  PwCThe states  Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra have offered preferentiai tariffs converting the respective markets conducive  investments. Rajasthan proposed wind tariff  the range  .  INR  .  INR per unit and Gujarat fixed the tariff rate  .  INR per unit. These states lagged behind Karnataka  terms  wind capacity addition  2oo5 have fared better  the recent times. Tamii Nadu  preferentiai tariff has been  the lower side, but the state has seen growth due  capacity addition under group captive and third party sales. This was attractive due  concessionai open access charges. Average capacity addition  and average FiT INR kWh  the last eight years KERC has recently revised the preferentiai tariff for wind projects  .  INR per unit from .  INR per unit. While  increase  tariffs   positive, the industry feels that the increment  not  line with market expectations. The tariff determined  fixed without any escalation for the duration  PPA. Also the order does not include any indexation mechanism incorporating market dynamics during the controi period. However with additionai revenues from generation based incentives from the centrai government, the wind sector can witness  added push  the state. KERC floated  discussion paper  wheeling and banking charges where the commission proposed  discontinue the banking facility   annuai basis and introduce transmission  wheeling charges  both for ali renewable energy  generators seeking open access  par with charges applicable  non  conventionai power generating companies. Concessionai benefits are affecting their finances adversely,  submitted  Electricity Supply Company Limited Escoms  the Commission. The KERC, after eliciting views from the stakeholders has issued  order extending the applicability  the existing concessionai wheeling and banking charges   generators untii  March 2o14. The KERC took the decision due  lack  data supporting the argument that ali Escoms  state are adversely affected. Average capacity addition  and Average FiT  kWh  the last  years With minor changes  the policy framework and implementation   more streamlined approach  allocation and development, Karnataka may join the top three states  terms  annuai wind capacity additions. CII Karnataka conference  Power 11Karnataka  one  the top seven renewable energy rich states  India. The coastai region  Karnataka has been identified  supremely conducive for solar power generation. The maximum amount  globai solar radiation occurs  districts such  Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, etc. Karnataka receives globai solar radiation  the range  .   .  kWh perm2 during summer, .   .  kWh perm2 during monsoon and .   .  kWh perm2 during winter. The solar potentiai  the state  per the KREDL projections  around 5oooMW. However, the installed capacity for generation  grid connected solar power  only    the state. This amounts  just about .   the totai solar installed capacity  the country which   the order  1968   the end  August 2o13. Solar energy can play  significant role  securing the energy future for the long term  Karnataka. Apart from being environment friendly  can  generated   decentralised and   off-grid solution.  per the KREDL, around 133 grid projects  totai capacity  around . 1MW are under different stages  construction and are being set with the support  the Centrai Financiai Assistance. Also, the KREDL along with the Solar Energy Corporation  India SECI are implementing 1297 numbers  . 5kW and 646 numbers  1kW grid connected roof top systems  Karnataka. Waiting for  impetus Solar power  Karnataka  http: solargis. infoThere  also  significant potentiai for  scale grid connected projects where  the generation and consumption can  managed  net metering. Any additionai generation can  exported  the grid. Large spaces available  urban areas such  roof tops can  used for solar energy generation. Investors  solar energy   scale and  scale can avaii the benefits  accelerated depreciation  reduce the costs and MNRE capitai subsidy for smali scale projects and can help retaii consumers  instali rooftops  lower costs while enjoying the benefits  reduced dependence  grid. Solar development  Karnataka The state government introduced the Solar Power Policy 2o11- which  expected  add projects under the renewable purchase obligation RPO, captive generation, third party, average power purchase cost APPC renewable energy certificates REC based projects and bundled power generation. The state through KREDL also supported various promotionai projects such  grid connected solar thermai  facilitate innovation.  per the KREDL, applications for 15o1MW have been filed for REC based projects and 1ooMW filed under the bundled scheme with Nationai Thermai Power Corporation NTPC. However,  allotments have been made  KREDL yet, except for bids invited  meet RPO. Target Capacity addition  per policy  Installed solar power capacities   different states    August 2o13Globai horizontai irradiation2  PwCSolar RPO for Karnataka The solar related activity  the state tili now focussed around meeting the solar component  the RPO which  currently  .   prescribed  the KERC.  totai  2ooMW  required  the state  meet expected solar RPO obligation tili 2o15-. Accordingly the state has successfully carried out bidding for setting  2ooMW solar power projects   process stretching over two phases. During the first phase,  capacity  8oMW has been successfully placed and  the second 13oMW has been placed. The bidders were mandated  offer discount  the benchmark tariff issued  the KERC which were .  INR per kWh for Solar  and .  INR per kWh for solar thermai. The first phase  7oMW finally allocated included 1oMW  solar thermai capacity. The tariff rate  .  INR per kWh   bidder  the lowest tariff witnessed among solar  bids across the country. The weighted average cost  electricity from solar power for Karnataka for the entire 2ooMW  .  INR per kWh. The state wili  able  comfortably achieve and exceed its solar RPO  .  post the commissioning  the allocated 2ooMW. The industry   the opinion that encouraging capacity additions with  primary objective  meeting solar RPOs limits the ability  the state  take advantage  the existing potentiai. The neighbouring states  Andhra Pradesh and Tamii Nadu have introduced ambitious policies and invited bids with  target  setting  upto 1GW and 3GW  capacity respectively irrespective  RPO requirements. Based  the finai price decided, around 135MW  expected   signed  Andhra Pradesh and close  7ooMW   signed  Tamii Nadu. Karnataka can also look  increasing the solar RPO component and aim  higher capacity   added under the RPO category. The solar components  RPOs are finalised  most states during 2o1o and 2o11, when the cost  energy from solar was over  INR per unit. Given the significant drop  the cost  solar energy  the last few years,  makes  strong case for the states  revise the existing targets   higher levei for their solar RPO. Attractive preferentiai tariff for the solar  and solar thermai projects The KERC has recently  October 2o13 introduced tariffs for solar , solar thermai and rooftop projects that are quite attractive.  has rolled out  tariff  .  INR per unit for solar  projects and .  INR per unit for solar thermai power plants for projects entering into power purchase agreements from  Aprii 2o13   March 2o18. The tariff  the same for projects being setup with and without availing accelerated depreciation benefits.   positive move, the KERC has also waived wheeling, banking and cross subsidy surcharges for the solar projects selling electricity through open access route within the state. This  applicable for both third party and group captive mechanisms. Earlier, the KERC has extended banking facilities  solar power projects from  March 2o13. The KERC has also addressed grid connectivity issues  the order.  mandates the state transmission utility STU  arrange necessary facilities  evacuate power from the interconnection point. The developer wili have  create the necessary evacuation system tili the interconnection point. Capacity allocated and tariffs realisedTop  states with highest solar RPO and capacity required: FY14 CII Karnataka conference  Power 13Kilowatt scale roof-top, off-grid systems and open access systems  the last few years, the cost  generation from solar energy sources  seen   dropping significantly  about    INR per unit. The cost  generation may reduce further going forward with the evolution  better efficiency products, larger systems and optimisation  BOS systems. The cost  energy drawn from grid has increased considerably  the same period  around .  INR per unit for industriai, .  INR per unit for commerciai consumers and .  INR per unit for domestic consumers.  per the industry,  makes considerable economic sense for the commerciai and industriai consumer  hedge their electricity cost  investing   captive generation source  setup grid, off grid roof top  ground mount systems. Similarly the domestic consumers can instali solar roof-top systems and enjoy the benefit  being self sufficient and even export energy  the grid. The KERC has announced tariff and net metering policy for the rooftop and smali solar power plants.  has announced  tariff  .  INR per unit for rooftop and smali solar power plants, INR .  per unit for project which avaii  capitai subsidy provided  the MNRE.  per the order, for the solar rooftop  systems connected  the  grid, net metering wili  adopted and  energy generated exceeds the energy consumed during  particular billing period, the ESCOMs shali pay the rooftop consumer for the surplus energy injected into the grid  the tariff determined  the order .  INR per unit. Further,  the energy consumed  the rooftop consumer exceeds the energy generated during  billing period, the rooftop consumer shali pay the ESCOM for energy consumed  the retaii supply tariff applicable for that category  per the prevailing tariff orders. Net metering policy  expected  play  key role  encouraging investments  grid connected roof top  ground mounted systems. The policy  implemented with specific guidelines wili incentivise the consumers  establish the solar rooftop and smali scale solar  projects. For the open access systems, not much capacity has emerged  the state tili date. However, the recent tariff order waived off wheeling and banking charges for open access sales. These incentives wili definitely help IPPs setup solar power projects for sale  power under third party  group captive mechanism and investment  the sector for availing accelerated depreciation benefits. The state has also planned setting    solar park with  maximum capacity  upto 5ooMW which wili accommodate both solar  and solar thermai capacities. The solar park can bring  scale benefits  aspects related  evacuation, land acquisition, water supply and getting required statutory approvals.  can accommodate projects which wili seli power  utility  FIT  tariff realised under the bidding route and projects which supply power  third party  captive consumer through the open access. While the discussions regarding the proposed solar park are  progress for  year, the industry  awaiting updates  the progress achieved tili date and the materialising  the solar park project. Highlights  the industry favourable policies  various states. Gujarat Target capacity addition  5ooMW Wheeling charges -  kind Incentives: -Exempted from electricity duty -Exemption from demand cut   extent    installed capacity Solar generation not subject  scheduling and forecasting Rajasthan Target capacity    -   Projects under varoius modes - MNRE GBI scheme, REC, bundling scheme, RPO sales, Roof top etc Pilot demonstration projects Solar parks  1oooMW waiver from scheduling and forecasting Andhra Pradesh Incentives valid for  years  banking charges Electricity duty exemption  CSS for third party  transaction  transmission and wheeling charges Refund  VAT for equipments, registration charges for land purchased for project Tamii Nadu   capacity   added  SPO   consumers Promotion  roof top solar projects with GBI benefits and power credits for excess generation 1oo exemption from demand cut Electricity tax exemption for  years Promotion  Solar parks Energy charges INR kWh: Karnataka  PwCJNNSM Phase  The Union Cabinet has recently approved Phase   the Jawaharlai Nehru Nationai Solar Mission JNNSM programme. The SECI   nodai agency  overseeing the programme and has recently issued  request for proposals RfP  set  75o   grid-connected  projects under the viability gap funding scheme. According  the RfP guidelines, projects developed under the JNNSM Phase , Batch  wili receive  tariff  .  INR per kWh for  years under the normai mode and . 9o5 INR per kWh  executed under the accelerated depreciation mode. The tariffs are comparable  the short term power purchase rates  Karnataka. Investors planning  setup capacity under the JNNSM wili consider states which are more supportive for project execution. The state can attract capacity under the JNNSM  the government can offer support  the developers  key aspects like land acquisition  obtain land under lease, setting  solar parks with the evacuation infrastructure, waiver  discount  any charges imposed for  new project creation  the state. Single window clearance through the KREDL can  facilitated  increase the ease  execution. Batch-  the JNNSM Phase   expected  come under the bundled scheme wherein solar capacity wili  bundled with thermai  order  bring down the cost  purchase for  state. Presently, application for 1ooMW  solar capacity  being implemented  the NTPC under the bundled scheme. The state can also consider similar modei  drive down the cost  purchase. CII Karnataka conference  Power 15Unlike power, which   subject under the concurrent list oii and gas     centrai subject and comes under the aegis  the Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas MoPNG. This limits the role that any state  India can play  influencing the commodity price and the commodity allocation. While oii has historically been  prized commodity for serving energy needs  the country. Especially given the dependence  the transport sector  oii, the rising prices  oii over the last two decades has made the world look  gas   alternative. The naturai gas use  India was  BCM   2o1o- and  BCM   2o11-.  needs   noted that there   clear distinction between the potentiai demand and actuai consumption and the numbers vary widely. According  the Internationai Energy Agency IEA, the gas demand  India  estimated   174.  BCM  2o2o and 276.  BCM  2o3o. The key drivers are the industriai and power generation sectors. This translates into  annuai increase  . . Sector-wise domestic gas consumption   12Addressing peaking power requirement Gas Sector  Karnataka Demand for naturai gas  the power naturai gas demand  India generation sector Demand for naturai gas  power sector  driven  three major factors: Electricity demand: This  the primary driver for use  naturai gas for electricity generation. The higher electricity demand   state wili drive the need for enhancing gas-based capacity region. This  turn wili lead   demand for primary sources  energy such  coai and naturai gas. Gas availability: Given the scarcity  naturai gas, the areas where   available, either naturally   being   pipeline route   virtue  being  the vicinity  Liquefied Naturai Gas LNG terminai, there   strong case for developing  gas-based power plant. Competitiveness  gas: Fired . Coai-fired plants: The economics per unit  power generated   key factor that contributes  choosing one fuei over another. While the price  coai  lower, the operating efficiency   gas-fired power plant  higher than that   coai-fired power plant. Additionally, gas   cleaner fuei when compared with coai. Further, the demand  gas  fuei power generation capacity  India can  analysed under three categories: . Demand emanating from the existing capacity which  not operating   optimum Plant Load Factor PLF . Demand generated   result  the new gas based capacity addition proposed under the Five Year Plans . Demand resulting from the decentralised generation sector which includes captive  peaking plants set  near cities with intensive industriai activity Needless  mention that the drivers for demand  gas  fuei  power sector  Karnataka   different. For Karnataka   state  register rapid industriai development,   important  minimise the shortage  power for industriai activities. Gas can  the answer  Karnataka  power deficit, especially for bridging the peaking demand-supply gap, given the ability  gas turbines  start generating power effectively and urgently. Projected sector-wise naturai gas demand  India  PwCSupply  naturai gas  the power generation sector The supply  naturai gas for ali the associated sectors  the economy  serviced through two sources that are domestic and imported gas. While domestic gas usage  subject  the gas utilisation policy, the supply  imported gas  governed  market forces.  per the gas utilisation policy , power generation  the third  priority after urea-based fertilisers and LPG sectors. For LNG, the buyers need  book capacities  the terminai  secure gas. Presently, there   preference  customers belonging   specific sector for securing naturai gas. Owing  the decline  production from India  largest gas field, -, the gas  primarily being allocated  urea based fertiliser plants. This has resulted  either shutting down  power plants  operations  the sub-optimai PLF. This  more pronounced  southern India including Karnataka where power generation capacities were added due  the availability  gas from the  block. Given the decline  production,  series  LNG projects have been planned  both the public and private sector companies operating  the   and infrastructure space. Most  the future LNG terminals are expected  come   the west coast, owing  its proximity  the gas exporting countries  the Middle-East, which  turn wili benefit Karnataka   state from the gas availability perspective. Another mode  import  naturai gas  Existing and proposed LNG terminals  India through cross-country pipelines. There have been major gas discoveries  the recent past  Centrai Asia and Eastern Africa around the Caspian Sea Belt. The first proposed cross-country pipeline, which  the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India pipeline TAPI pipeline,  expected  service India  naturai gas demand  2o17. The northern states are set  benefit more from cross-country pipelines while southern states like Karnataka are set  benefit more from LNG. The map and the table below show the existing and proposed LNG projects  India. Gas for peaking power The electricity generated from power plants cannot  stored and has   produced when needed. This provides  opportunity for gas based power producers  opportunity  generate power and inject  the grid during the peak-load season. The decentralised power generation constituting smaller capacities coming close  load centres wili mainly support peaking needs  the long run. However,  the short run four  five years,  may even see the gas based projects running  base load plants. These projects have their advantages  being ideai for captive power needs set close  consumption point since   quick  set , its fuei  easier  transport,   cleaner  operate,  highly efficient and  can  ramped   down effortlessly without loss  performance.   per EGoM meeting held   June 2oo8Project Location Developer Capacity mmtpa LNG Suppliers Mundra Gujarat GSPC .  Talks  progress Ennore Tamii Nadu IOCL  Talks  progress Paradip Orissa IOCL  Not Decided Chhara Junagadh District HPCL  Not Decided Dighi Port Hiranandani Group  Not Decided  FSRU APGDC GDF Suez .  Not Decided Gagngavaram,  PLL   CII Karnataka conference  Power 17In addition  these inherent advantages, such projects deliver -generation benefits  recovery  energy from waste heat   heating, chilling, etc. Such projects are called combined cooling heating and power projects CCHP. With these additionai benefits  waste heat recovery, the payback can  drastically reduced. Moreover,  setting   project close  the consumption point, the consumer does not have  worry about open access availability, transmission system break-down, problems typically encountered while taking power from large IPPs over long distances.  fact, the current power policies promote - generation. This advantage  the gas based power generation has great scope  the coming years with the electricity demand growing and industry experiencing coai shortages. With more coai mines located  the eastern region and high transportation cost  coai  Karnataka, gas- fired generation may play  larger role that  base load  weli  peak load generation. The idling capacities  new capacities  Karnataka can save the situation  the state  peaking power deficit, which stood  .    , higher than the nationai average. The gas-based power plants  Karnataka stand  gain owing  Karnataka being connected  three sources  naturai gas, viz. Dabhoi LNG terminai and Kochi terminai  the west coast and the domestic gas coming from  basin  the east coast. Despite the location advantage, the challenges that are being faced  users  naturai gas exist. These include delay  commerciai operations  the Dabhoi plant, steep decline  domestic gas production, weakening  the rupee against the dollar and generai lack  the existing pipeline infrastructure for gas transportation. Unit tariff spread from various fuei sources Pricing signals   date, the power exchanges acts   means  meet short-term demand fluctuations. The tariffs have varied between  INR per kWh  2oo8  .  INR per kWh  2o13  the power exchange. The state tariff  around .  INR per kWh for industriai consumers and .  INR per kWh for commerciai consumers.  addition  high tariffs,  sets are used  back- power source  these consumers. This makes the effective tariff even higher, depending  the number  hours  power outage.  this tariff, gas   excellent replacement fuei. The attractiveness  gas   replacement fuei makes  case for gas based captive power plants, which wili offer economy, reliability and quality  power supply and additionai benefits  -generation. Since gas based plants work   apt solution for peaking needs,  wili also  worthwhile  compare the economics  such  plant with current sources  peaking power. With significant peak deficits across ali regions  India, industriai consumers depend  diesei based generators  overcome grid power outage and run their operations. Industriai consumers typically run   sets for  average  two tosix hours daily. Even when the state distribution licensees purchase power from the trading market  meet peak deficits, the prices tend  reflect the cost   based power approximately  INR per unit. Over the past five years  consistent rise has been seen  volumes  weli  prices  trading market.  fact, some -linking has been displayed  consumption and prices, indicating that consumers are ready  pay significant reliability premium over grid price  continue business operations. The netback price, that , the imputed price which customers are willing  pay for naturai gas,  current power trading price  .  INR per kWh, works out  .  USD per MMBTU.  this segment, gas seems   comfortably placed  compete with other sources  power. The challenge however lies  the price differentiai  domestic naturai gas and RLNG. While domestic naturai gas from most  the sources  priced  .  USD per MMBTU, Cabinet Committee  Economic Affairs CCEA has approved  price  .  USD per MMBTU for domestic gas effective from Aprii 2o14. Further, the domestic price has been proposed  vary according   formula  has been prescribed  the Rangarajan Committee. This  expected  bridge the gap between domestic naturai gas price and LNG prices.  PwCSupply chain issues for naturai gas The transportation  naturai gas for power plants from the respective sources  primarily through naturai gas pipelines. The regulator for downstream   business, Petroleum and Naturai Gas Regulatory Board PNGRB  responsible for authorising entities  lay, build, expand and operate naturai gas pipelines. Since its inception  2oo8, PNGRB has authorised five naturai gas pipelines. The users  naturai gas need  enter into gas sales and purchase agreements with the operators  domestic gas fields and with the marketers  LNG for imported gas.  addition  this, they need  enter into gas transportation agreements with owners  naturai gas pipelines for transportation  naturai gas from the source  their facilities. Existing and proposed gas pipelines  Karnataka Pipeline Operator Existing and Proposed East-West pipeline EWPL Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure Limited RGTIL Existing Dabhoi Bangalore pipelineGAIL India LimitedExisting Kochi Bangalore pipelineGAIL India LimitedProposed  addition  this, MoPNG had authorised Relog  subsidiary  RGTIL  construct the Chennai- Bangalore- Mangalore pipeline prior  the formation  PNGRB. However, owing  lack  work  the ground, the authorisation was cancelled. Gas prices  India Naturai gas pipeline  India  issued  PNGRB The progress  the naturai gas pipeline sector has been dismai  say the least. Also, the delays  commissioning  LNG projects and the steep decline  production  domestic gas have added  the woes  naturai gas customers. There   need  hasten the process  awarding naturai gas pipelines and  arrest the steep decline  the production  naturai gas. Regime Region Gas Price mmbtu Gas pricing  IndiaAPMNorth east .  Outside north east .  PSCNorth east .   basin .  Cauvery basin .  Western and northern Zone .  PMT .  -LNGTerm -LNG .  Spot -LNG .  Prices mentioned are weli head  - supply point price and  exclusive  transmission cost, marketing margin and taxes duties. CII Karnataka conference  Power 19Pooled prices for naturai gas  inter-ministeriai committee was constituted  create  policy for pooling  naturai gas prices and provide  pooi operating guidelines.  the finai report issued  the committee  August 2o11,  did not recommend the pooling mechanism for naturai gas  the overali levei, nor did  recommend  price pooling   sectorai basis. However, the committee opted for preferentiai allotment   scheme  priority   basis for allocating domestically produced naturai gas across users segments. The report then accorded priority  specific customer segments  the order  suggested  the government  gas utilisation policy.  may  worth noting here that post Aprii 2o14, the price for domestic naturai gas wili  determined based  the volume weighted average  the benchmark price  trailing naturai gas prices  Henry Hub, Nationai Balancing Point NBP and weighted average producers netback price for Japan. This has been done  the absence  availability   reference index  India and owing  the lack  enabling infrastructure and the generai lack  naturai gas supply.  may  worth noting that the lack   robust pipeline network and the availability  naturai gas, both domestic and imported have led  non- implementation  gas  India. Also, the prices for negotiated spot and long-term contracts for LNG  compared with domestic naturai gas prices are highly divergent. For Karnataka, the effective price  naturai gas for end users wili tend towards LNG prices, given that the state  expected   serviced more  LNG than  domestic gas. This  owing  the proximity  the state  the existing and proposed LNG terminals and the lack  discovery  domestic gas  the vicinity  the state. Peaking power globally: Illustrations Globally, there are various examples  people using gas based peaking power  ensure uninterrupted supply  power  industriai units. Some  the examples are  follows: Peaking power for the summer months  Sabbah, East Malaysia: Malaysia has been experiencing rapid development for the last few years which has led  increasing demand and consumption for electricity. Sabah Electricity Sdn Bhd SESB, the sole supplier  power  the large customer base  Sabah, East Malaysia, was engaged  various generation, transmission and distribution projects  response. However, they faced  impending power shortage crisis  the new independent power plant IPP projects could not  completed  time  meet the burgeoning demand. The problem  hand was addressed  using gas based power generators   quick time. Two gas turbines  the EDF Luminus power plant located  Angleur  Liège, Belgium, each capable  producing    power, can achieve fast start-  just nine minutes. This  helping EDF Luminus deliver continuity  electricity supply  households and businesses  Liège during peak demand periods.  addition, gas turbines deliver significant emissions performance benefits, helping EDF Luminus  ensure that Liège has stable access  cleaner and more efficient electricity supply. The high electricai efficiency  the turbines allows plant  obtain primary energy savings, especially when used  cogeneration  combined cycle applications where waste heat  also utilised.  India, the state  Gujarat   example  how the initiatives  the state government have helped the state  having  weli developed gas sector. State owned companies like GSPC and GSPL were created  develop the midstream and downstream naturai gas sectors. The companies were given autonomy  create infrastructure that would allow them  market naturai gas. Gujarat also had the advantage  having gas supplies from -land gas fields and LNG terminals. This allowed the naturai gas sector  flourish  the state, including the increased availability  naturai gas for captive power stations and gas based power plants, including for peaking power. The results are evident from Load Generation Balance Report 2o13-  CEA which shows that the only .   Gujarat  peaking power requirement was left unmet   2o12-  compared   nationai average   deficit  http: blogs. terrapinn. com totai-electricity 2o13   case-study-peaking-power-summer- months-sabbah-east-malaysia  http: www. rolls-royce. com sustainability casestudies efficient_peaking_power_supply. jsp  http: www. cea. nic.  reports yearly lgbr_report. pdf  PwCIn addition  the key factors such  potentiai  the state and the tariffs, the industry believes that improvements can take place  various fronts  enable growth  clean energy  the country and  Karnataka. Land acquisitions Land acquisition  one  the key issues faced  the industry today.  per the industry, average time taken for completing land acquisition  closer  one year  the state.   policy, currently companies cannot acquire agriculturai land.  has   converted  non-agriculturai  land for    acquired. This process  identifying land, request for conversion and acquisition   time consuming process.   important for the government  empower KREDL and hold the agency responsible  facilitate land acquisition  make amendments  enable wind power developers  purchase agriculturai land   less cumbersome way. Also, there   time-frame defined for converting agriculturai land  non-agriculturai use-alienation. Currently the process takes around eight  nine months.  the Renewable Policy 2oo9- some specific measures were specified for land acquisition, which  implemented wili promote both solar and wind investments  the state. Key enablers for growth  clean technologies and the way forward Ease  execution  addition  the regulatory framework another facilitator  investments  the sector  the ease  execution. The developers today have  undergo complex and time-consuming processes  obtain the necessary approvals and clearances for development  renewable projects. The state has allocated wind projects with totai capacity    out which only .   has been commissioned, .    yet   commissioned and the rest .   has either been rejected, surrendered,  cancelled. The capacity yet   commissioned  either stuck due  land acquisition  clearances issues,  lack  intent from the developers. The feedback from the industry  that the allocation committee meetings  not take place  often  they should.   result more than .   capacity  waiting   allocated. Additionally the single window clearance system promised  the policy  not being implemented  reality and developers continue  spend significant amount  time  liasioning with different offices  obtain the necessary approvals. The stakeholders  the sector also feei that the allocation process  the moment  too opaque and the government needs  bring   more transparent framework which helps everyone involved understand the basis and methodology  allocations.  addition the framework should also incorporate specific timelines and milestones for the allotments made along with stringent cancellation and termination provisions  ensure the allotments turn into meaningfui CII Karnataka conference  Power 21capacity additions. Some  these provisions are already provided for  the policy documents, what  needed  willingness from the involved agencies  enforce the policy provisions. KREDL declared the setting    technicai committee which  looking into the formulation   separate wind energy policy besides updating the existing solar energy policy and that  draft  this regard was being circulated among experts and stakeholders  get their views. Evacuation infrastructure Obtaining evacuation approvai today takes significant amount  time because Karnataka Power Transmission Company Limited KPTCL doesn  have  separate department   team for overseeing evacuation related work for non-conventionai energy sources. The industry also feels that the current system has  redundant process with respect  obtaining the necessary approvals during various stages leading  delays  taking  projects. Karnataka  expected  add substantiai amount  renewable energy during the 12th Plan period.   important for KPTCL  take into account the renewable capacities being added during annuai system planning and strengthen the network adequately. KPTCL should take into account the following while developing evacuation infrastructure for  projects:  potentiai  location specific: The renewable energy potentiai  location specific and most  the good potentiai sites are located either  remote areas  areas with complex terrains.  per the industry, evacuation infrastructure  Devangere, Chitradurga and Gadag  fully utilised and cannot evacuate any significant capacities  the future. Bijapur and Raichur are also expected  face similar problems  the near future. Grid capacity augmentation  such key regions   must  avoid bottling   generation potentiai. Intermittency: Solar and wind energy are intermittent  nature. Integrating such  sources effectively which produce peak energy during different times  the day, wili reduce supply fluctuation and leads  better utilisation  the transmission system. Regulatory support for clean technologies Policy certainty with regards  preferentiai tariffs, open access framework and encouraging policies for  technologies play  huge role  encouraging lenders and equity investors  invest  projects. Ensuring the same wili   long way  capacity additions from clean technologies for the state. The KERC has came out with significant orders  the wind and solar tariff order  recent times, and also extended the concessionai wheeling and banking benefits currently available for the wind sector tili  March 2o14. The tariffs determined and incentives offered for solar look extremely positive and are expected  promote solar and wind power development  the state, more clarity  certain aspects especially with regard  solar such  those mentioned below wili provide comfort  the industry: The tariffs are baselines rates for bidding  preferentiai tariffs for ali developers  seli  the utility Capacity which the state would tie  under this tariff Validity  the incentives available for open access transactions Offtake obligation  utilities  the excess energy generated  solar roof top  systems  PwCMore importantly introduction  net metering connectivity with specific guidelines wili   long way  encouraging kilo watt scale systems  the state. Also,  the consultative paper, the KERC discussed option about providing certain tariff for off-grid solar power generators for avoided utilisation  grid power. However this aspect  not covered  the tariff order. Apart from concessionai charges for renewable generators, the state needs  introduce time based and simple procedure for open access approvai mechanism. Currently, direct consumers and renewable energy generators have  follow  rigorous open access approvai mechanism  make this sales arrangement successfui. Innovation  technology Innovation  technology  important for bringing further efficiency and effectiveness  the clean energy technologies. Following are key views from the industry: Karnataka with the presence  some  the key domestic module manufacturers and solar EPC players, needs  support research and manufacturing  the state  way  offering appropriate incentives. This   line with the state  Semi Conductor Policy  2o1o. The country needs  support and take  more demonstration projects  try out new concepts  clean energy generation. Concepts like grid scale storage systems, peaking power supply systems, hybrid mechanism, and smart grid systems  address renewable integration can  tested out. While solar  systems have been reinventing and improving over the period  time, not much  the installed capacity  solar thermai  added and the country lacks capability  the design and project execution. Continuous support from the government  required  promoting solar thermai technology  exploit the high irradiation levei the country receives. Effective use  gas based generation Peak deficits can  tackled effectively  using the gas based capacities  Karnataka  produce peaking power. The LNG terminals  the vicinity  Karnataka can  utilised  fuei these power plants. Also, the spread between future LNG price and cost  power from alternative fuels  bound  drive the usage  gas based plants for peaking power. The state needs  develop  gas market  effectively use gas based plants. Some steps which can help create  naturai gas market are  follows: Enhancement  gas transportation infrastructure  the state: GAIL Limited and Karnataka State Industriai and Infrastructure Development Corporation KSIIDC entered into  MoU  Aprii 2oo9  develop spur lines along the main pipeline route  provide gas connections  major cities and industriai areas. The MoU  aimed  providing naturai gas infrastructure and city gas distribution CGD  Karnataka. With the recent commissioning  the Dabhoi- Bangalore pipeline, Bangalore  now  part  the gas grid. These are encouraging developments however the state needs  ensure that the last mile connectivity  provided  larger gas-based power generators. Ensuring supply  naturai gas  power units: Given the multiple stakeholders involved  the gas purchase process, viz. the   company, LNG terminai, the gas marketer and the pipeline operator, smali power producers may not have enough resources  secure gas   timely manner. The government, through the state industriai body can help the smali players  assisting them  procuring naturai gas. CII Karnataka conference  Power 23Assistance with funding requirement: The procurement  naturai gas necessitates the consumers  place  bank guarantee with the gas supplier, which  usually  percentage  the estimated annuai contracted supply value.  may  difficult for smali players  provide such  guarantee   sustained manner. The government could assist these companies  being  guarantor  behalf   cluster  power developers. Pricing signals for peak usage: The cost  generating electricity  higher during the peak period than during the off-peak hours. This higher generating cost arises from the higher fuei cost  weli  the higher capacity cost per hour  the plants used  supply peak power. Due  these peculiar characteristics the state should look  providing differentiai tariffs for generation  peak and providing necessary incentives  encourage investors  set  LNG based peaking power plants. Other specific policy enablers Speciai development zones: Karnataka announced its intent  set  the renewable Speciai Economic Zones SEZ and KREDL was  provide   current and future SEZs for development   projects. These are referred   renewable energy economic zones. Some sites have been identified   developed and specific timelines for approvals and clearances have been specified. The current status with regard  the implementation  unknown, however  the SEZs are implemented  wili provide  significant boost  the sector. Establishment  reliable ground measurement data: Non-availability  reliable site potentiai data makes the accurate evaluation  the returns from  project, technology selection and financing very difficult. Going forward the state should plan along with centrai agencies for additionai assessment stations for renewable technologies. Financing   projects:  the  Policy 2oo9-,  Green Energy Fund for providing concessionai loans  renewable project was announced   welcome step. The fund  accumulated  levying .  INR kWh  commerciai and industriai customers and  expected  generate capitai   crore INR annually. This fund  expected  promote Public-private partnership mode, decentralised generation and distribution  projects for the benefit  rurai sector.  these funds are deployed effectively the state can witness  increase  investments. Reallocation  cancelled projects: The state government should come  with  definitive road map and  framework  reallocation  cancelled projects.  PwCKey takeaways CII Karnataka conference  Power  The state government  commitment and supportive policies and regulatory frameworks are vitai for capacity addition  the wind and solar sector. The role  government   facilitator  providing infrastructure for wind and solar energy projects like connectivity, electricity, water supply, land approvals and clearances, etc. The understanding  new emerging business models for wind and solar energy projects. Severai issues, challenges and risks are involved  financing wind and solar projects. The availability  various financing options from private equity players, banks and other financiai institutions are essentiai for the success  Wind and solar projects. Key advancements are happening  future wind and solar technologies. How they can enhance efficiency from the projects. Initiatives such  smart metering, net metering, smart grid, etc. can help  efficient management  wind and solar projects. Need for Forecasting and scheduling  wind and solar energy  enhance the grid efficiency and requirements   . Problems and risks being faced  developers while forecasting and scheduling. Requirement for using gas based power  peaking power, issues faced  gas based power players Understanding gas supply chain issues and infrastructure requirements Gas pooled pricing policy effectiveness for reviving gas based power plantsThe conference wili showcase the changes needed  the policy and regulatory levei  encourage investments  clean technologies  Karnataka.  wili also serve   platform  discus and identify new investment opportunities and secure future energy requirements  the state. Some key takeaways expected from the conference are listed below:  PwCAbout CII Contacts Ramesh  Director Head, Karnataka State Office Confederation  Indian Industry  1o86, 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage Indiranagar, Bangalore - 56oo38 Tei - o8o-4288 9595 Fax - o8o-2527 67o9 : ramesh.  cii.  Reshmi Mohandas Executive Confederation  Indian Industry  1o86, 12th Main, HAL 2nd Stage Indiranagar, Bangalore - 56oo38 Tei - o8o-4288 9595 Fax - o8o-2527 67o9 : reshmi. mohandas cii.  The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, Government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo members, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo enterprises from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai industry bodies. CII charts change  working closely with Government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialized services and strategic globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  key issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civii society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  ali. With  offices, including  Centres  Excellence,  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. CII Karnataka conference  Power 27About PwC Contacts Kameswara Rao Executive Director, Leader, Energy, Utilities and Mining Phone: --6624 6688 emaii: kameswara. rao . pwc. com Deepak Mahurkar Director, Oii Gas Phone: --33o 6o72 emaii: deeoak. mahurkar . pwc. com Sunii Kumar Associate Director, Energy and Utilities Phone: --6624 62o3 emaii: sunii. kumar . pwc. com PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  Data Classification: DCo: For generai use This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  1o3 - October 2o13 CII-Karnataka. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India