Title: pwc_retail-reinvention-paradigm-v1
Date Published: 2025-02-26 14:24:02+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_retail-reinvention-paradigm-v1.pdf
Word Count: 6364
Sentence Count: 437
Average Sentence Length: 22.8

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
retaii: 132
retailers: 125
online: 101
pwc: 95
consumer: 78
tier: 75
cities: 73
reinvention: 69
traditionai: 58
shopping: 52
brands: 49
consumers: 49
offline: 46
stores: 44
customer: 40
product: 37
digitai: 35
channels: 34
metro: 34
base: 34

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

The retaii reinvention paradigm How brands could  their game Foreword  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmAmidst unprecedented disruption driven  the meteoric rise  -commerce and the emergence  quick commerce more than 28o  during the last two years India  retaii sector continues  evolve   rapid pace. Brands now have  greater number  channels  seli their products across different categories  consumers. However,  order  reap the benefits  the choice  channels available, brands must strategically deploy  combination  channels  enhance consumer engagement and profitability, and capture  larger share  the market  maximising consumer utility.  help both consumers and brands achieve this goai, our paper The retaii reinvention paradigm: How brands could  their game explores the intricate relationship among brands, channels, consumers and retailers  the offline and online space. Insights shared  this report are based   survey, conducted  collaboration with Hansa Research,  over , ooo retailers and 8oo consumers across metro cities, tier ,  and  cities  India. These insights are further complemented with the data collected   survey, conducted  collaboration with Kirana Club  5o8 retailers. While severai striking findings emerged, one that caught our attention was the continued success  brick-and-mortar retaii  tier  and  cities. Despite the aggressive expansion  quick commerce, brick-and-mortar retaii remains  robust channei  these cities, supported  independent retailers strong sense  service and engagement with their loyai consumer base. These retailers view the -commerce landscape   opportunity  enhance their offerings. What they are seeking   levei playing field  logistics, delivery and technology policies from the government,  weli  equitable pricing from brands. Another revelation was the low awareness  and engagement with Open Network for Digitai Commerce ONDC, which underscores  criticai gap  outreach, education and incentives pursued  driving retailer participation  the -commerce ecosystem. Resilience, reinvention and resurgence define the mood  offline retailers, especially  tier  and tier  cities. Both consumer and retaii brands can use similar insights from this report. For example, they could seek ways  building  hybrid modei  tier  and tier  cities which can deliver  engaging and personalised shopping experience   brick-and-mortar retailer while retaining the utilities offered  digitai channels. They could also consider actively collaborating with offline retailers  strengthen their technologicai offerings  make their business more agile.  https: www. businessworld.  article quick-commerce-sales--india-surge--28o-over--yrs-report- 534674: : text The 2oreport 2onoted 2othat 2owhile, and 2omore 2oconvenient 2odeliv - ery 2ooptions  the retaii sector continues  evolve, brands must visualise how consumer utility  driven based  channei choices across different categories and target consumer cohorts. They need   cognisant  the geographic nuances which can impact the consumer utility profile and also tailor their channels  accordance with how the target consumers perceive utility. This wili help brands become more relevant for their target consumers.  wili also facilitate minimising choices and aid optimai resource allocation.  assist brands  this journey  have designed  Retaii reinvention framework, which helps retailers capture the unique nuances  their product offerings across channels and consumer groups and guides them  prioritising their next actions.  hope this report inspires you  reimagine your business strategy and seize the exciting possibilities that lie ahead. Ravi Kapoor Partner and Lead Retaii and Consumer PwC India Somick Goswami Partner and Business Transformation Leader PwC India Sanjay Dawar Partner and Lead One Consulting PwC India Raghav Narsalay Partner and Lead Research and Insights Hub PwC India  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm . Navigating disruptions  the retaii sector . Insights from PwC India  research . Implications  the research . Next moves  PwC India  retaii reinvention framework  Appendix Contents  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmNavigating disruptions  the retaii sector1 First they see  product, ask for its rate, and then they open  app online and teli    getting this rate online. What can  say  that? Home care store owner AsansolSometimes,   hard  understand exactly what the customer wants. They often show  photos  products they  seen online, but  can  difficult  figure out where  source those items from.  have  search because there   much variety.  give loans credit   customers.  used    earlier too, but now  has increased.  give around INR , ooo , ooo,  fact  have also raised   INR , ooo for  customer. They get - days  return .  also  free home delivery for online orders. Sometimes  think that  product might perform weli  the market, but  doesn . Similarly, for this quick delivery,  are not sure  the demand would  there and our money could  wasted  keeping these additionai stocks.  matter how often  get new stock,  have noticed that customers always come  looking for specific trends.  first,  takes  some time  understand what  popular.  the time  figure  out and try  meet their expectations, the trend has already changed. This makes  difficult  always keep  with what customers want. Apparei store owner Amritsar Packaged food store owner Bengaluru Beauty and personai care store owner Bhopai Apparei store owner Mumbai   evident that not ali  smooth sailing for the traditionai  etailers ship. Retailers are batting   sticky wicket, one that demands maneuvering and good navigation skills,  accurate assessment  the retaii landscape and environment, awareness  the potentiai hazards and essentially, the knowledge and ability  manage grey rhino events, not merely black swans. Therefore,   time for retailers  reinvent themselves    the crest  the digitai wave and enable customers  exercise the flexibility  making  purchase virtually  physically based  the cost  the product, ease  access and comfort  the buyer. Statistics indicate that Quick-commerce  India has expanded   impressive  annuai growth rate during  2o23-242   Indian shoppers prefer  shop from  omnichannei brand.  Overali, the retaii market  India  expected  grow  USD , 892 billion  FY3o,   compound annuai growth rate CAGR  . , with -commerce, the fastest growing channei, notching  CAGR  .  and touching USD 22o billion  FY3o.   PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm2 https: www. businessworld.  article quick-commerce-sales--india-surge--28o-over--yrs-report-534674: : - text The 2oreport 2onoted 2othat 2owhile, and 2omore 2oconvenient 2odelivery 2ooptions  https: brandequity. economictimes. indiatimes. com news research -per-cent--indian-shoppers-prefer-- shop-from--omnichannei-brand-report 1o141o51o  PwC analysis  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Figure :  overview  the retaii industry  India USD billion Source: PwC analysis64   121 148 181 22o 123 1461742o72442863358559321, o111, o921, 1741, 2561, 338 - 2oo 4oo 6oo 8oo , ooo , 2oo , 4oo , 6oo , 8oo , ooo FY24 FY25  FY26  FY27  FY28  FY29  FY3o  -commerce Modern Trade Generai TradeFY25-FY3o CAGR -commerce: .  Modern trade:  Generai trade: .  Overali retaii: .   the face  , this augurs weli for the retaii industry  disruption  the retaii landscape today  more  norm than  exception. Traditionai retaii has made room for -commerce  way  reduced cost, and the availability   wider range  products and convenience. Quick commerce -commerce has taken that  the next levei with its promise  ultra-fast delivery times which  further intensifying competition among retaii giants. Omnichannei retailing, with its integration  various shopping channels online, -store, mobile, sociai media provides  seamless customer experience across multiple touchpoints, giving consumers the flexibility  shop anytime, anywher . The retaii sector therefore  clearly   state  flux, suffering from Jevons Paradox5 which implies that while -commerce and omnichannei are leading the charge and facilitating, enhancing and accelerating the shopping experience, they are paradoxically making the competition fierce, prompting traditionai retaii  reinvent itself  stay the course.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmTo understand the current dynamics  the retaii sector  India, PwC India conducted  survey between December 2o24 and January 2o25 : assess how traditionai retailers perceive -commerce online shopping platforms understand the shift  consumer behaviour from offline6  online7 shopping sift out opportunities for brands   ahead  the evolving retaii curve. The survey conducted across metro cities and tier  cities such  Mumbai, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Bhopai and tier  and tier  cities like Asansoi, Amritsar, Gwalior and Karimnagar included online interviews with severai operationai and sales heads  retailers and face--face interviews with , o26 traditionai retailers. Approximately 12o traditionai retailers were covered under each specified category apparei, white goods, beauty and personai care, fresh produce, packaged foods groceries, home care, fashion and accessories, home furnishing, and sports and fitness. Online interviews with 822 consumers provided  perspective  how shopping experiences were impacting their preferences for physicai and virtuai environments.  Jevons paradox   economic theory formulated  William Stanley Jevons  1865.  states that when  resource becomes more efficient, demand for  may increase instead  decrease. This  because the resource becomes cheaper  use, which can lead  more people using . Jevons observed that more efficient steam engines would not reduce the amount  coai used  British factories, but would actually increase .  coai became cheaper, demand for  would increase, which would lead  the construction  more engines. The paradox can  applied  other resources including energy-efficient cars, appliances, and light bulbs and,  this instance, retaii.  Offline- generai trade, modern trade, multi-brand outlet and exclusive brand outlet  Online- -commerce, pure-play marketplace PPMP, brand websites and category websites  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmFigure : Sample coverage  the survey quantitative qualitative Source: PwC analysisConsumer Gender Geography419 4o3 Tier  Tier    261 561 Tier  Tier    419 6o7Traditionai Retailer Geography This ushers  opportunities for them  realign and reinvent  accordance with the changing requirements  the retaii world. From  growth perspective, capturing mindshare and wallet share across categories and channels demands  laser focus  maximising customer utility. This,  turn, entails finding the optimai combination  channels and categories  deliver maximum utility   individuai consumer  any given time. Importantly, while brands can controi the utility   delivered with their categories and channels, they can also influence the consumer  decision  engaging the utility levers  pricing, convenience, variety, engagement and experience. Therefore,  becomes pertinent for brands  understand what utility looks like for each consumer cohort across the channei choices that consumers could consider   product category. Categories  productsChannels through which they seli Consumers customers The survey highlights  symbiotic relationship among various elements  the retaii ecosystem, where each influences the other. Brands aim  maximise the value they gain primarily from Insights from PwC India  research2  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmDriving retaii reinvention entails focusing  pivotai aspects  the retaii ecosystem. Our research underscores the following four overarching themes that could perhaps set the course:  the omnichannei retaii success greater than the sum  its parts?  -commerce more common  metro cities and tier  cities than  tier  and tier  cities? What  the offline retailer  recipe for success  the new- age digitai world? How wili the brick- and-mortar retaii reinvention unfold?  the omnichannei retaii success greater than the sum  its parts? Customers don  want  choose between online and offline. They want both. Some days, they want  shop from the comfort  their homes, and,  other days, they enjoy walking into  store and experiencing the products.  have   ready for both situations. Apparei store owner Karimnagar1 The omnichannei retaii experience  India   work  progress. Though  has led  various levels  success for brands and consumers, the success  often perceived  more   fragmented journey than  cohesive whole. The personai consumption space has embraced the online shift robustly, offering convenience and  wide array  choices. However, when  comes  family-oriented purchases, consumers stili prefer  hybrid approach, blending online research with offline shopping  achieve  sense  tangible assurance and quality. Despite the potentiai technology has  offer  help them grow, brick-and-mortar retailers are yet  fully harness digitai technologies  enhance -store experiences effectively. The survey  findings indicate: For personai products, online shopping  the preferred choice for more than   consumers, especially  categories such  apparei, beauty and personai care, fashion and accessories, and sports and fitness.  the other hand, family-related products, such  fresh produce, home furnishings, white goods and home care products, are stili more commonly made -store  these purchases often require more tactile and sensory engagement. While the shift  online shopping for personai items  indeed sharp and undeniable  metro cities and tier  cities, the overali trend  more nuanced.   not  across-the-board transition but  segmented shift which differs between consumer categories and geographicai areas. The shift towards online purchase  stronger when making purchases for individuai consumption  than for family group purchases .  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmWhile apparei and beauty and personai care categories are primary drivers  the ongoing shift toward online consumerism, nearly   consumers stili prefer  combination  both online and offline channels.  2739Negative Positive Neutral422336Negative Positive Neutral382636Negative Positive Neutral34 2936Negative Positive Neutral352441Negative Positive Neutrai 343135Negative Positive Neutral373o 33Negative Positive Neutral312445Negative Positive Neutral28 2547Negative Positive Neutral3o 2743Negative Positive Neutral43     Base 1o26 Base 124 Base 132 Base 114 Base  Overali Apparei Beauty and personai careFashion accessoriesSports and fitness Packaged foodsWhite goods Home care Home furnishingFresh produce Base 261 Base 123 Base 124 Base 119 Base 122     29Consumer shift  online shopping Shopping  categories Consumer shift  online shopping Shopping  categoriesFigure : Impact  -commerce and online shopping apps  percentage Retailer Source: PwC analysis  digitai platforms continue  evolve, some categories have capit alised  the inherent advantages  online shopping increased demand for convenience, personalisation and immediacy. Interestingly though, nearly   the consumers surveyed prefer  hybrid modei,  combination  both channels when making purchases driven essentially  the products   purchased thus keeping the tension between the offline and online channels alive. Physicai stores stili hold  appeai   said they would prefer only offline shopping compared   who said they would prefer only shopping online  the overali surveyed consumers. The primary reasons for shopping offline include the ability  see and try products before buying, the trust  the store brand, and the -store shopping experience. This  further corroborated  the fact that some retailers are beginning  personalise the offline experience for each customer, tapping into the hitherto untapped power  unique -store experiences.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmSource: PwC analysisFigure : Mode  purchase offline  online  percentage Consumer Base 8o8 Base 8o8 Base 793 Base 733 Base 814 Apparei Beauty and personai careFashion accessoriesSports and fitnessPackaged foods groceries White goods Home care Home furnishingFresh produce Base 7o2 Base 811 Base 734 Base 8o9 Consumers mode  purchase: Offline . online Consumers mode  purchase: Offline . onlineBoth Offline Online56 Both Offline Online37  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Consumers today expect more than just easy access  products they seek engaging experiences that add value  their shopping journey.  tier  and tier  markets, demand for immersive retaii  rising, particularly  fashion, sports and other tactile categories where -store interactions considerably shape purchase decisions.  the other hand, metro cities continue  prioritise experientiai beauty retaii and seamless convenience  everyday essentials such  packaged foods and fresh produce.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmOverali Metro cities Tier 1Tier   Apparei    Fashion and accessories    Beauty and personai care    Sports and fitness    Overali Metro cities Tier 1Tier   Packaged foods    Fresh produce    Home care    Overali Metro cities Tier 1Tier   White goods    Home furnishing   38Wearing and looking good Eating and consumption Functionai tactileFigure : Demand for enhanced -store shopping experience  percentage Source: PwC analysis While traditionai retailers clearly acknowledge the potentiai  technology  lure customers, many stores continue  use digitai tools primarily for functionai purposes rather than for enhancing the -store customer experience. This highlights the opportunities arising from the significant digitai gap waiting   bridged. While -driven solutions such  recommendation engines and virtuai fitting rooms have alleviated common online shopping barriers like sizing and fit, brick-and- rtar retailers are yet  leverage similar innovations  optimise the generative experience and facilitate  seamless, engaging customer journey. Despite the demand for -store interactions,   retaii stores are yet  implement  technology solution  their traditionai stores.  the apparei industry, consumers are now more deliberate, particularly with their offline shopping, and expect high-quality experiences. With the convenience  free returns and  willingness  experiment, technology wili  cruciai  determining which offerings succeed and which  not. CXO Fashion and lifestyle brand Mumbai  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmHowever,  opportunities  gather insights  consumer profiles and preferences grow, brick-and-mortar stores can enhance their customer centricity efficiently  staying current with the use  technology.  revealed from our interviews, fast moving consumer goods FMCG brands are increasingly introducing new products online for quick trials before expanding  offline channels across broader regions. Similarly, apparei brands are leveraging online consumer data  refine -store merchandising   locai levei. Therefore, the ability  collect and analyse consumer data allows physicai stores  optimise their operations, giving them steam  compete with online brands. Also,  gauging locai consumer preferences, retailers can tailor their -store product selections  better meet the needs  their specific customer base, potentially increasing sales and customer satisfaction. The integration  online insights with offline strategies therefore underscores the importance   omnichannei approach, where both digitai and physicai presences complement each other  create  seamless and efficient retaii experience.  None Customer relationship management CRM tools Online ordering  delivery platforms Point  sale POS systems Chatbots  automated customer service Inventory management softwareTechnology measures taken  retailersFigure : Technology measures taken  retailers  percentage Source: PwC analysis  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm -commerce has firmly established itself  India  bustling metro cities and tier  cities driven  the convenience demands  affluent city dwellers.   study undertaken  Kirana Club,  5o8 surveyed traditionai retailers reported  drop  frequency  customer visits  stores and  subsequent drop  foot traffic, which  higher  tier  markets and across larger store formats.  -commerce more common  metro cities and tier  cities than  tier  and tier  cities? FMCG brands  metro cities and tier  areas continue  reach the same customer base through various channels. Although -commerce has introduced  additionai channei,  hasn  significantly expanded the customer base. The anticipated growth for these brands  likely  come from deeper market penetration  rurai parts  India. Suraj  Head  Sales KRBL   Note: Kirana stores the backbone  India  neighbourhood shopping are facing  new wave  disruption.  understand how -commerce  influencing these retailers, Kirana Club conducted  -depth research  capture insights directly from  diverse mix  5o8 traditionai retailers across its platform. Read more about Kirana club  the Appendix.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmOn the flip side, -commerce  expansion into tier  and tier  regions,  per our research, reveals  contrasting narrative  non-metro cities retailers remain largely unpressured  -commerce  entry. The challenges for -commerce  tier  and tier  areas are manifold delivery costs soar over greater distances and fragmented demand makes inventory management inefficient. Our survey  findings indicate: -commerce  impact  essentiai categories  significant, with   retailers reporting  sales decline  food, beverages and confectionery. This  followed  personai care and hygiene  and household cleaning and care .  the other hand, there  minimai impact  niche categories such  childcare, beauty, and wellness, which remain least affected. Interestingly, prices  notable -commerce platforms are   premium  anywhere between    with  plethora  add- charges. But that   price affluent urban customers are willing  pay for hyper-fast delivery services, prioritising convenience over cost. Metro cities   cities and smaller townsPercentage drop  frequency  visit  consumer category type Smali retailers Medium retailers Large retailers Totai metro cities Smali retailers Medium retailers Large retailers Totai  cities and smaller towns Food, confectionery and beverages78        Personai care and hygiene44        Household cleaning and care5o        Baby and childcare22        Beauty and cosmetics19        Heath and wellness14       6Figure : Percentage drop  frequency  visits  consumer category type Source: Kirana Club Research  its initiai days, -commerce was driven with pricing   key utility lever. However, with the rise  -commerce, the game has now veered towards convenience and impulse over pricing. The quickness  delivery aligns closely with the impulsive nature  the category.  -commerce, customers are more focused and intentionai, akin  hunting rather than grazing. Due  limited screen space and product variety, they tend  make more decisive choices. , some categories are expected  thrive more than others. Nissan Joseph CEO Metro Brands  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmIn our survey   consumer respondents from metro cities and tier  cities prefer quick delivery for urgent needs, and this rise  hyper-fast delivery services has reduced foot traffic  physicai stores  . -commerce, understandably ,  synonymous with instant gratification and the ease  skipping checkout line  aligned with consumer expectations  convenience--demand. Certain product categories are trying  live   that expectation   nuanced manner.  the fashion industry, which  highly engaging,  must meet customer expectations and provide excellent -store experiences. -commerce offers  opportunity for this industry  present merchandise which prioritises convenience such   white shirt  black trousers. These are items that don  require much thought about size  fit  customers already know what they need. CXO Fashion and lifestyle brand Bengaluru  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmThe shift  -commerce  metro cities and tier  cities  intensifying with  few prominent -commerce giants intent  expanding their -commerce segment  launching 3oo  5oo dark stores within this year.  However, for tier  and tier  cities, the number  muted. Lack  clear return policies and limited assortments may turn out   deai breakers for some consumers.  address these concerns, -commerce companies have begun  experiment  splitting the orders   range  dark stores, which  turn impacts their lightning speed delivery promise. Over   consumers  metro cities and tier  use -commerce  avaii  packaged foods, fresh produce and home care products. Recent reports highlight that -commerce giants are ali set  launch dark stores. What  the offline retailers recipe for success  the new-age digitai world?  have realised that  cannot compete with the low prices and discounts offered online. ,  add value for our customers,  offer free delivery within    radius untii 9pm. Over time,  have built strong relationships with our customers, and many  them now place their orders through instant messaging  phone calls. Packaged Goods Retailer Asansol3 Reasons for preferring -commerce Average Quick delivery for urgent needs usually within   min  Access   wide variety  products across multiple categories  Convenient for unplanned  last-minute purchases  Easy  use with minimai steps for ordering  Availability  detailed product specifications and reviews 38Figure : Consumer preference for -commerce  metro cities tier1 cities  percentage Source: PwC analysis  The Economic Times  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmIn  era where digitai retaii seems  overshadow traditionai models, offline-first retailers are discovering that their narrative isn  one  inevitable decline but rather  resilience and adaptation. While   traditionai retailers view the rise  -commerce   looming threat,  forward-thinking  are transforming this challenge into  opportunity, using the digitai shift  enhance customer service and diversify offerings. Overali Metro cities Tier  citiesTier   cities Helped increase awareness about products  seli.    Made customers more informed and easier  deai with.    Motivated   improve customer service and offerings.    Driven more customers   store for unique locai products.    Made  easier  access trending  fast-moving products.    Wholesalers can make bulk purchases online and increase supply quantity.    Allowed   partner with online platforms  expand  reach.    Buy online during the sale period and then seli   consumers  increased prices.    Online platforms enhance the visibility  the latest trends, allowing consumers  purchase similar styles from our store  more affordable prices.   24Figure : Impact  -commerce  retailers  percentage Source: PwC analysis  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmApproximately   traditionai retailers perceive online shopping   significant threat while  believe  has had  impact  their business. However, when assessing the actuai impact, only   traditionai retailers reported experiencing negative consequences from the rise  online shopping while  were yet  see any impact. Thus, the perceived threat may  more   anticipated risk, rather than one backed  substantiai evidence. Our research also indicates that direct--consumer brands are looking   offline  scale . Not ali traditionai retaii stores across categories consider -commerce   threat. There are those that perceive    opportunity  elevate customer service, diversify their product offerings and leverage online platforms  expand their reach. For instance,   apparei retailers and   beauty and personai care retailers perceive online shopping   opportunity  improve product awareness and customer service. Also, some retailers are  the view that while digitai commerce  growing exponentially,  the ground   not entirely eating into the traditionai retaii market. Rather, there   rub-off effect wherein different channels, including traditionai and modern trade, and -commerce are influencing one other. According  the survey,   traditionai retailers perceive online shopping   opportunity. Moreover,  have seen  positive impact  online shopping  their business. Offline retailers, perception  online shopping  more  apprehension than  threat for the time being. Survey findings indicate: Both Offline Online   21Perception 23Threat Opportunity  impactActuai impact 39Negative Positive Neutrai Consumer preferenceRetailers perception Source: PwC analysisFigure : Perception  -commerce  retailers and consumers  percentage Base , o26 Base 124 Base 132 Base 114 Base  Overali Apparei Beauty and personai careFashion accessoriesSports and fitness Packaged foodsWhite goods Home care Home furnishingFresh produce Base 261 Base 123 Base 124 Base 119 Base 122 Retailers perception about online shopping Retailers perception about online shoppingThreat Opportunity  Impact Threat Opportunity  Impact6o  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmSource: PwC analysisFigure : Perception about -commerce shopping apps  retailers across various categories  percentage Retailer  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm   impacted traditionai retailers and those that reported  dip  sales are using deeper discounts  retailers with  sales dip,  with  sales dip  stay competitive.  traditionai retailers are introducing offers schemes, with  stronger push from those hit harder  retailers with  dip,  with  sales dip.  traditionai retailers are doubling down  home delivery, leveraging personai relationships  beat -commerce  efficiency challenges  retailers with  sales dip,  with  sales dip.  traditionai retailers are optimising their product mix and quality  stabilise and grow sales. This  more common among  retaii stores with  dip compared   with  dip.  are focusing  customer relationships, ensuring retention and engagement. There  more emphasis  stores with higher impact  retailers with  sales loss versus  with  impact.  are experimenting with food stalls, credit extensions and other new business ideas  offset losses. Discounts and offers Home delivery Assortment CRM Other measuresTraditionai retailers are gradually adapting balancing discounts with assortment improvements, strengthening locai advantages such  home delivery and customer relationship management CRM, and exploring new revenue streams. The bigger the sales hit, the stronger the response. Advantage Kirana stores: Highlights   research conducted  Kirana Club with 5o8 traditionai retailers According  the survey,  traditionai retailers are fuelling their marketing and customer engagement strategies predominantly from their own pockets, relying  internai savings  profits, clearly showing their willingness  engage with the perceived threat.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmThis trend  even more pronounced  metro cities, where most traditionai retailers rely  self-funding, while tier  and tier  retailers show  higher dependency  informai loans and supplier credit.  leverage credit from suppliers  distributors while  seek bank loans and turn  financiai institutions for support, thus showcasing  mix  resourcefulness and financiai partnerships  driving growth. Top five customer engagement activities Ali Metro cities tier  citiesTier  and  cities Offering personalised customer service    Stocking products which are not available online    Offering competitive pricing    Flexible return  exchange policies    Ensuring that staff communicates politely and with patience38   Top five marketing activities Ali Metro cities tier  citiesTier  and  cities Offering discounts  bundled offers    Using sociai media for promotions    Partnering with locai businesses for promotions    Sending personalised messages . . instant messaging services, emaii    Organising -store promotions and events   36Figure : Top initiatives implemented  traditionai retailers  compete with -commerce  percentage Source: PwC analysis  the , o26 traditionai retailers surveyed,  are currently operating dark stores, while  plan  soon. With -commerce continuing  dominate, the concept  dark stores  gaining prominence  expand retailers reach  efficiently serving online customers and  save  operationai costs. Notably, retailers  the fashion, accessories and apparei sectors, particularly those  tier  and tier  markets, are more eager  adopt dark stores. Retailers who are operating  are planning  ope rate dark stores 69Currently operating Plan  operate  not operate  plan  operate How wili the brick-and-mortar retaii reinvention unfold?  feei like   being left behind. The world  changing  fast, and   struggling  keep .  need someone  guide  about these online apps,  show  how  use technology  grow our business.  wish the government could have been supportive towards  because  are struggling especially  how   online. White goods store Gwalior4  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmMoreover, about   traditionai retailers are exploring dark stores. Source: PwC analysisFigure : Percentage  traditionai retailers operating planning  operate dark stores Survey findings indicate   traditionai retailers believe improved access  technology can empower them  enhance their competitiveness. The landscape  brick-and-mortar retaii  poised for reinvention  digitai commerce continues  disrupt traditionai models. While the rise  online shopping presents challenges,  also offers  unique opportunity for brick-and-mor tar retailers  levei the playing field. Approximately   traditionai retailers believe that improved access  technology particularly chatbots, automated customer service tools, point  sales system, inventory management software could empower them  compete effectively against digitai platforms, highlighting how digitai tools can   rnessed  powerfui allies rather than threats. Amidst this disruption, ONDC remains  under-the-radar revolution, with limited awareness among retailers and consumers. Brands and traditionai retailers believe integrating -driven analytics and mobile applications can enable them  understand customer preferences better and tailor their offerings, accordingly, making   interactive experience with human touchpoints. Further,  data-driven approach could also help them enhance their ability  compete with online platforms  offering competitive prices and targeted promotions.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmCategory Overali Metro citiesTier  and  cities White goods    Sports and fitness    Apparels    Fashion and accessories    Beauty and personai care    Packaged goods and Beverages    Home furnishing    Home care    Fresh produce   55Retailers are demanding better access  technology  Figure : Percentage  traditionai retailers who prefer better access  technology across categories Source: PwC analysis Flexible return policies , efficient after-sales service , and better payment options  top the list  consumer priorities. For consumers, hassle-free shopping and post-purchase support are important. When deciding  visit offline stores more frequently, they often prioritise assortment, convenience and the overali purchase experience over pricing and discounts. After- sales service   important for tier  and tier  cities , reflecting the need for continued retailer support beyond the initiai purchase. Product variety  and availability with improved stock levels  are also important factors. Additionally, running  monthly credit facility  remains  important feature, especially  locai markets where retailer-consumer relationships are stronger. Thus, brick-and- mortar retailers have  opportunity  outserve their online counterparts  focusing  assortment, convenience and the experience  shopping   ther apeutic, sociai activity   indulged  with friends and family.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmIt may also  noted that despite ONDC  potentiai  empower retailers  competing against -commerce giants, awareness  the platform remains low. This disparity suggests that the platform has not yet achieved the levei  adoption necessary  leverage its fuli potentiai. The low awareness and engagement with ONDC underscores  criticai gap  outreach, education and incentives aimed  driving retailer participation. Figure : Consumer preferences for offline shopping  percentage Ali Metro cities tier  citiesTier  and  cities Easy and flexible return  exchange policies    Efficient after-sales service and support    Better payment options    Opportunity  see and try products before buying    Exclusive -store benefits  loyalty rewards    Improved availability  required products sizes    Faster checkout and billing process    Running  monthly credit facility with the shop    Availability  home delivery for -store purchases    Enhanced -store shopping experience    Wider variety  products    Better discounts and offers    Assurance  product quality    Helpfui and knowledgeable staff    More convenient store locations    Source: PwC analysis   traditionai retailers believe fairer delivery and logistics policies are needed  ensure equitable operations across retaii formats besides government subsidies and tax relief. Traditionai retailers across ali categories emphasise the need for government intervention and support  create  levei playing field. This includes regulations  online discounts, financiai incentives and subsidies  modernise traditionai stores along with tax relief. Collaboration with brands for exclusive product lines and better margins are also seen  key enablers for sustaining traditionai retaii businesses and this  where government  support can help retailers. ONDC Accept orde  through ONDC4 Aware about ONDCIs ONDC bridging the gap  lost  the noise? Figure : Retailer awareness about ONDC Source: PwC analysis  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmImplications  the research3 The rise  -commerce has led   urgent need for retailers  change their traditionai ways  operating. Some  the important aspects which retailers must understand  order  adapt  this change are: These findings indicate that the future  retaii  about blending the traditionai and modern, tactile and digitai, naturai and artificiai.  shift towards generative, immersive and engaging retaii experiences  not just inevitable but indispensable, especially when  comes  traditionai retaii.   what the consumers are demanding.  traditionai retaii   remain relevant,  needs  reinvent itself into  trending service,  immersive experience which  dynamic yet personai, and humanly engaging yet technically elevating. Sociai media and influencer culture also have  role  play amidst the tangible value being generated. Influencers spark trends  platforms, share product reviews and create seamless shopping experiences through embedded links. This digitai ecosystem fosters two-way conversations making the buyer  journey more interactive and personalthan ever before. The omnichannei retaii experience  India   work  progress. For personai products, online shopping  the preferred choice while the offline mode works best for family-related products demanding tactile, sensory engagement.  that   may, consumers stili prefer  combination  online and offline channels. Proactive technology application could   gamechanger for traditionai retaii stores and could increase their competitiveness. With the rise  -commerce, the game has now veered towards impulse over pricing, and some -commerce companies are set  launch dark stores  expand their -commerce segment. While traditionai retailers perception  online shopping   threat  higher than the actuai threat  may pose, some  them actually perceive online shopping   opportunity, and  have seen  positive impact  online shopping  their businesses. Only   traditionai retailers are familiar with ONDC and  mere  are actively accepting orders through the platform.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Omnichannei retaii success  greater than the sum  its parts impliesFollowing are some  the implications  the research: Consumers crave for the best  both worlds: Nearly half  the consumers who participated  the survey stili crave the best  both worlds the convenience  online browsing and the tactile joy  -store experiences. For some sectors, consumers prefer  shop  their terms effortlessly hopping between screens and aisles, but for others click and buy without  certain levei  trust fails  work. Here, the -person experience remains king. Thus, the future entails  hybrid offline online modei creating  seamless shopping journey   complementary ecosystem where each channei enhances the other. Retailers who focus  leveraging this relationship wili thrive, while those that resist the evolution risk being left behind. They need  carve out experiences which let customers move seamlessly between the virtuai and the tangible. Therefore, the perception  online shopping   threat, rather than  challenge   leveraged, may soon   thing  the past.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm -commerce  more common  metro cities and tier  cities than  tier  and tier  cities Slow uptick  -commerce  tier  and tier  cities augurs weli for the kirana stores: The promise  hyperlocai fulfillment works weli  cities with consistent demand. But outside metro cities, -commerce becomes  costly challenge. Without  steady stream  orders, the cost  hyperlocai inventory and quick delivery options becomes unsustainable, turning the modei into  financiai strain. Thus, the demand fragmentation creates significant operationai friction delays, high per-order expenses and profitability takes  hit. The unpredictability  demand for certain products like fresh produce  essentiai home care items can create significant challenges  stocking including longer holding times, higher levels  wastage and inefficiencies  inventory planning leaving the modei unsustainable outside  metro cities and tier  cities. Here  where traditionai retailers, which are more than just neighbourhood shops, can   gamechanger.  the backbone  community retaii  tier  and tier  cities, they could soon become digitai-first warriors  their markets, offering the speed and convenience that customers demand, but with  personalised, community- based touch. Their personai connection with consumers, deep understanding  locai needs and the ability  serve smali, often overlooked, markets can give them  edge  the era  -commerce. Therefore,  digitising inventory and adopting lean, hyperlocai delivery models, these stores can achieve  similar agility and convenience, minus the heavy infrastructure costs.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmo3 o4Retailers need  weli-defined roadmap  the new-age digitai world Brick-and-mortar retaii reinventionRetailers need  move out  their comfort zone and clue into the online trend movements   their game: While the prevalence  technology  becoming  must  retaii, there  stili  psychologicai resistance  integrating advanced technologies  physicai stores. Retailers often feei overwhelmed  uncertain about how  implement these tools effectively, especially when the benefits are not immediately clear.  key challenge  the fear  change many retailers stili prioritise traditionai customer service methods because they are familiar and perceived  low-risk. The hesitation  adopt innovation comes from  fear  alienating customers who may not  comfortable with too much digitai interference. Getting rid  that notion  criticai  much  understanding that  the digitai realm, trends aren  just quick they are lightning fast. ,    race against the clock across ali cities. The online platforms landscape has become the trendsetter where something can  from obscure  virai   matter  hours.  the time these trends land  offline stores, they are already seasoned, popular and ready   sold  the next big thing. Thus,  keep  with the ever-changing trends  the digitai space, offline retailers need   trend catchers, relying  online movements  inform their -store strategies. This trend underscores the growing reach  -commerce,  consumers across metro cities, tier , tier  and tier  cities access the same brands  similar  ices, making online shop- ping even more appealing. This would also decrease the pressure offline retailers feei and enable them   their game  limit the impact  digitai disruption. Being experientiai and tech-centric could  the retailers reinvention mantra: Retailers are increasingly diversifying their product offerings  counter competition. However, the variety offered  -commerce platforms often surpasses their own offerings, thereby limiting the effectiveness  this strategy. Consumer preferences have shifted  larger retaii formats and towards high brand consciousness across most categories. This compels traditionai retailers  stock both branded and non-branded  less-premium products, impacting their profit margins due  higher inventory costs.  expectations continue  rise from physicai retaii stores  have larger assortment, convenient delivery, faster checkouts, generative immersive experiences and digitai sociai engagement, smaller retailers, unable  invest  technology  pace, are likely  look  consolidation  survive and thrive. Such consolidation can enable greater reach and competitiveness, reduce costs  combining resources and boost business capabilities  leveraging strengths  each entity involved. Next moves4 The discussion  the previous section highlights: Consumers crave the best  both worlds seamless digitai convenience and -store immersive experience. Retailers and brands recognise that major trends for their categories are now initiated  -commerce platforms  online marketplaces.   result, they operate   reactive puli mechanism, fulfilling demand rather than driving , marking  significant shift from their earlier push strategies. This shift presents both challenges and opportunities. While collaboration with online platforms can drive growth, strategic agility  cruciai  balance independence and digitai integration   evolving retaii landscape. The slow uptick  -commerce  tier  and tier  cities augurs weli for the kirana stores. Retailers and brands need  move out  their comfort zone and clue into the online trend movements   their game. Being experientiai and tech-centric could   added advantage.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm leverage -commerce for success adopt  flexible, hybrid approach leverage ONDC flip the script and seize untapped opportunities focus  generative customer experiences analyse cost-benefit outserve rather than outprice online retailers. What  next for brands and retailers?  outline some actions:  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Leverage -commerce for success Forward-thinking traditionai retailers are finding ways  use digitai platforms  their advantage, with retailers  metro cities seeing greater benefits compared  their tier  and tier  counterparts. The largest opportunity comes from increased product awareness   metro cities versus   tier  and  cities, better-informed customers  versus , and motivation  enhance customer service  versus . This suggests that metro cities retailers are more exposed  digitally savvy consumers, prompting them  improve their offerings, while tier  and tier  city retailers are yet  fully capitalise  these shifts. However, some opportunities resonate more  tier  and tier  markets, such  wholesalers making bulk purchases online  and easier access  fast-moving products , indicating that online platforms help these retailers streamline supply chains and stay competitive. Additionally, partnering with online platforms   lower  tier  and tier  cities, suggesting  need for better integration and support for smaller retailers  these regions. Meanwhile, trend visibility through -commerce   metro cities .   tier  and  cities helps metro cities retailers attract customers looking for affordable alternatives. Our recommendation  digitai commerce continues  evolve, traditionai retailers who strategically integrate online benefits whether for supply chain efficiency, brand visibility  consumer engagement wili  better positioned for long-term success. Certain categories have  more prevalent consumer discovery  the offline channei, hence,  robust trio  people, processes and technology  extremely important. When the trialist becomes  loyalist, the second and third purchases are where the channels blur, and  need   present  ali platforms and channels with  similar value offering. Jafar Jawaid Head  Sales Lotus Herbals Adopt  flexible, hybrid approach Our recommendationThe retaii industry must cater  evolving consumer needs with  flexible, hybrid approach which recognises evolving consumer behaviours, such  the specific demand for both personai and family-related shopping experiences. Consumers also want the flexibility  researching online and then making the purchase -store  vice versa. Severai direct  customer  D2C companies are also doubling down  their omnichannei strategy.  They are leveraging insights gleaned from online sales  decide where  open offline stores and then use their physicai presence  gain access   larger consumer base, conduct product trials, have soft launches  offerings, and build trust. Retailers and brands who combine fast, reliable delivery with brick-and-mortar shopping experiences can create  strong hybrid modei that keeps them relevant  the modern retaii world.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm1o The Economic Times, Offline stores are trending  new set  D2C firms emerge ONDC presents significant opportunities for brick-and-mortar retailers, allowing them  tap into the online market boom once the hurdle  unit economics  cleared out. Retailers with  entrepreneuriai spirit can leverage this platform effectively. Many brands are likely   eager  offer the necessary product support  they can directly reach and serve customers. Leverage ONDC Our recommendationONDC was set  with the aim  redefine India  -commerce landscape  ending digitai monopolies and creating  levei playing field for traditionai retailers. However, concerted efforts are needed  enhance its visibility, build understanding and incentivise adoption else  runs the risk  remaining  underutilised resource rather than becoming the transformative tooi  was designed   for the retaii sector. Stakeholders, including government bodies, industry associations and platform developers need  focus  creating strategies that effectively communicate the ONDC platform  benefits and encourage widespread engagement among traditionai retailers. Failure    may result  missed opportunities for the very retailers ONDC  intended  support. Head  Sales FMCG Mumbai  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Flip the script and seize untapped opportunities Our recommendationWhile around   traditionai retailers view online shopping   looming threat,  are seizing    golden opportunity  elevate customer service and diversify their product offerings. Far from making shoppers impulsive, these savvy retailers see -commerce   tooi for smarter, more informed customers  agreed that the digitai shopping experience empowers consumers  make weli-researched decisions, ultimately paving the way for stronger, more meaningfui engagement. Retailers and brands should leverage the advantage offered  some platforms which allow them  onboard their products with ease, enabling them  seli directly through sociai media platforms and stores. This ensures that brands stay top--mind, leveraging the immediacy  sociai media  engage with customers and drive sales  reai-time.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm Focus  generative customer experiences Our recommendationCertain product categories have proven that the future  retaii lies  creating dynamic, personalised and engaging consumer experiences which combine technology with human connection. However, most traditionai retailers are yet  figure out ways  digitise the -store experience for better product discoverability  brand advocacy. They also have the opportunity  collect insights  consumer profiles and preferences  enhance the customer experience journey. However, integrating data from both online and offline touchpoints can   struggle for retailers.  Retailers need  look  adopting advanced technologicai solutions  navigate this. Integrate technology  offer virtuai product demos  interactive tutorials  help customers visualise the product  their homes. This can enhance the shopping experience. Engaging with online reviews and listing products  marketplaces can also give retailers  wider reach and boost credibility.  comprehensive post- purchase support system through digitai channels can also enhance customer satisfaction and loyalty. Besides allowing the customers their first touchpoint with the brand from anywhere, anytime, especially for lower tier regions where offline store viability   question mark, digitai commerce offers brands with aligned values, the chance  collaborate and build  community that enhances customer experiences. Driving unique product offerings rooted  the right set  values and focus  customer service excellence wili continue  bring customers  stores and,  fact, online and offline channels can actually complement each other and grow the overali business pie for the brand. Amrish Garg Head  Strategy and Planning Fabindia  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm11  Retaii, Navigating digitai transformation: Retaii leaders share key challenges  adopting  omnichannei retaii strategy Analyse cost-benefit Our recommendationDriven  the -commerce boom, the demand for dark stores  India, which was  about  million square feet  2o23,  projected  grow   CAGR    .  million square feet tili 2o27.  The criticai question, however, remains whether dark stores are the next evolution  traditionai retaii   they represent  step backward  terms  reducing traditionai stores sales while accelerating the growth  online sales. Stores considering the setting   dark stores need  weigh the set- and operationai costs against potentiai benefits.   also worth explo ring other models that may benefit both the locai stores struggling with dwindling customers and the -commerce players grappling with  high cash-burn modei.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm12 Moneycontroi, Demand for dark stores touched about  million    2o23. Here   deep dive into the concept Outserve rather than outprice online retailers Our recommendationAssortment, convenience and purchase experience trumps pricing and discounts  online purchases. Traditionai retailers need  outserve online retailers rather than focusing  outpricing them. Instead  jumping  the bandwagon  free delivery and online ordering  replicate digitai perks, retailers have  opportunity  stand out  offering one---kind -store experiences, tailored services  exclusive products which can   found  the online world. Offline stores can tap into the therapeutic value  shopping for some customers wherein they don  just shop for products but consider    more   interaction where they can enjoy the experience and develop  connection.   often  shared experience with friends  family which makes  much more than just  transaction. Although -commerce platforms are shifting consumer behaviour from stock   top   urban markets, the brick-and-mortar channei  constantly evolving  maintain its relevance. Emphasis  home delivery,  deep understanding  customer preferences and the right assortment  products are ali key factors which can enable the brick-and-mortar channei  reinvent itself. Anubhav Krishan Sales Director Consumer Products Division Himalaya Wellness  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmPwC India  retaii reinvention framework5 PwC India  retaii reinvention framework provides brands with the ability  visualise how consumer utility  driven based  channei choices across different categories and also  varying socio economic segment. Brands need   cognisant  the geographic nuances which can impact the utility profile and also tailor their channei actions  line with how consumers perceive utility. This wili not only help brands  become more relevant for their target consumers during decision-making but would also facilitate the narrowing down  strategic choices and aid optimai resource allocation for brands.   criticai for brands  understand how each consumer cohort perceives utility for  product category across the channei choices they make.  , therefore, important for brands  first factor  the following questions  pricing, convenience,  riety, engagement and experience which gets impacted  the choices made  their target consumer segment. The framework measures the utility levei across Low, Medium and High levels for each  these areas and helps brands arrive   overali utility score for each  their consumer cohorts and channels.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmD. Engagement How weli does the consumer know about the brand category and  willing  advocate ? How easily can the consumer  influenced  externai opinions  induce trials repeat purchase? What  the ability  the channei  drive loyalty with  without programme? . Experience  the consumer looking for  value-added experience  the occasion? Does the purchasing occasion add sociai value  the consumers?  the purchase decision individuai  influenced  friends family? . Value for money Online Offline Does the consumer consider the product costly  cheap  their basket  products?  buying  the lowest cost  big priority for the customer? Are there any easy substitutes available? . Convenience How urgent wili  the usage occasion?  the product easily discoverable  the channei?  there  easy access  alternate retaii channels? . Variety Wili the product enhance the sociai value  the consumer? Wili the consumer require  large assortment  make  product selection? How different are available comparative options within the brand and competition? LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMH LMHFigure : PwC  retaii reinvention framework Source: PwC analysis Note: ,  and  denote Low, Medium and High  the table.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmFigure : Illustrative example  PwC India  retaii reinvention framework for  premium chocolate brand The following illustration captures how the utility profile for  premium chocolate brand  the urban geography evolves across channels for different consumer cohorts. ISEC - ISEC - ISEC -12Q-commerce -commerce Locai store Modern store  Com Ecom Locai Store Modern Store  Com Ecom Locai Store Modern Store . Value for money Does the consumer consider the product costly  cheap  their basket  products?  buying  the lowest cost high priority for the customer? Are there any easy substitutes available? . Convenience How urgent wili  the usage occasion?  the product easily discoverable  the channei?  there  easy access  alternate retaii channels? . Variety Wili the product enhance the sociai value  the consumer? Wili the consumer require  large assortment  make  product selection? How different are available comparative options within the brand and competition?  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmSource: PwC analysis From the illustration above, one can see that the approach  prioritising online channels with  sharp focus  driving assortment, product discoverability and engagement levers can help the brand  maximising its utility for the Indian Sociai  conomic Classification - ISEC1- cohorts.  Focusing  offline trade availability and tacticai price points through new packs  offers wili induce consumption for the ISEC - consumers. Brands must recognise that the utility balance between consumer segments, the channels and the categories  dynamic and evolves with changes  consumer behaviour and profile. The following illustration carries forward the earlier example  the premium chocolate. The illustration shows how utility profiles across consumer cohorts shifts between channels online and offline and how each contributing consumer cohorts evolves differently. Brands can also use Retaii Price Index RPI - Price  consumer indexed  volume  product   alternate measure  estimating contribution  consumer cohorts, under the assumption that RPI  correlated  the socio-economic demographics  the consumer group. . Engagement How weli does the consumer know about the brand category and  willing  advocate? How easily can the consumer  influenced  externai opinions  induce triai repeat? What  the ability  the channei  drive loyalty with  without programs? . Experience  the consumer looking for  value-added experience  the occasion? Does the purchasing occasion add sociai value  the consumers?  the purchase decision individuai  influenced  friends family?  Note: Indian Socio-Economic Classification system   standard  per Market Research Society  IndiaLow impact Medium impact High impact  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmFigure : Illustrative example  utility profile evolution for  premium chocolate brand -2oo2o4o6o8o1oo  2oISEC - ISEC - ISEC -    1oo Utility score generated  offline channelUtility score generated  online channelSize  the bubble represents contribution  the consumer cohort The illustration represents the three distinct consumer cohorts ISEC - represents high income group, ISEC - represents medium income group and ISEC - represents low income group.  indicated  the illustration, consumption gradually moves from high income  medium and lower income groups, indicating the changing representation  the income groups consumption profile. Additionally, the utility for ali three consumer cohorts moves from offline  online channels corresponding with the difference  evolving consumer behaviour across the three consumer cohorts. Change  consumption patterns shown  the size  the bubble represented  numbers  the circle: the contribution  the high-income group for the premium chocolate category drops from    whereas the consumption  medium income group moves from    and low-income group from   . This  reflective  how with rising income levels and evolving needs, consumption patterns have evolved for brands  the premium space . . premiumisation. Change  channei utility: Different consumer cohorts reflect  variation  the propensity  find incrementai value  online channels. For instance, high and medium-income cohorts ISEC - grow   much faster pace  online channels compared  the low-income cohort ISEC -. Therefore, brands must align their actions and investments based  this evolution for these two cohorts ISEC -  they stili contribute  the majority  the consumption.  the same time, they must recognise that the smallest, yet relatively fast-growing, consumer cohort, the low-income cohort ISEC -, can behave differently  comparison  the high- and medium-income groups.  seen from the illustration above, inspite  movement towards online channei the utility  low- income groups stands maximised with offline channels.  Current state Future stateSource: PwC analysis  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmUtility score generated  channei ISEC - ISEC - ISEC - Offline    Online    Contribution  consumer cohort  percentage ISEC - ISEC - ISEC -   1oCurrent Utility score generated  channei ISEC - ISEC - ISEC - Offline    Online    Contribution  consumer cohort  percentage ISEC - ISEC - ISEC -   15Future Source: PwC analysis Therefore, retaii reinvention,  not just about adapting  changes but proactively anticipating them. Brands could stay ahead  the curve  accurately predicting shifting consumer trends and strategically aligning their actions with specific channei-levei shifts.  understanding  consumer utility profiles could enable brands  predict how they may move with time and align their actions  line with these predicted changes, These channei-specific actions could enable brands   relevant  consumers  their buying preferences and expectations from channels evolve. This framework combined with  forward-thinking approach can enable them  meet evolving consumer expectations, enhance their market presence, and, ultimately, drive sustained growth   ever-changing retaii landscape. Appendix The survey conducted across metro cities and tier  cities such  Mumbai, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Bhopai and tier  and tier  cities like Asansoi, Amritsar, Gwalior and Karimnagar included online interviews with severai operationai and sales heads  retailers and face--face interviews with , o26 retailers. Online interviews with 822 consumers provided  perspective  how shopping experiences were impacting their preferences for physicai and virtuai environments.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigm1o4   respondentsMumbai Bengaluru Jaipur Bhubaneshwar Bhopai Asansoi Amritsar Gwalior KarimnagarFigure : City-wise breakdown  the retailer respondents  surveyed multi brand outlets across categories Majority  the surveyed outlets visited were standalone shops and not part  any nationai regionai modern retaii chains  any category.  PwC The retaii reinvention paradigmFigure : Gender-wise breakdown  the consumers surveyed Figure : Classification  the consumers surveyed  per the new consumer classification system NCCS Figure : Classification  the consumers surveyed  per their occupation11o  - years - years - years - years99 1o2 1o5 1o4 1o5 1o1 Male Female - years - years - years - years127  123  134  1o9  NCCS  NCCS  - years - years - years - years25 Owning  business Salaried  working   company Self-employed professionals Others18 Notes Notes Our previous report  this series About Kirana Club Kirana Club  India  largest digitai community for Kirana store owners, empowering .  million retailers with insights, peer discussions and business growth opportunities.  the retaii landscape evolves, Kirana Club serves   vitai platform where traditionai retailers stay informed, adapt  market shifts and leverage new strategies  stay competitive   rapidly digitising world.  bridges the information gap between FMCG brands and retailers, fostering stronger collaboration and smarter decision-making creating  win-win situation for both. This report delves into the key drivers and barriers which are shaping the online shopping behaviour  consumers  metropolises and tier -  cities  India. How India shops online Scan the code  download the report Authors Contributors Editor ContactDesignRavi Kapoor, Raghav Narsalay, Vishnupriya Sengupta, Sudip Gupta, Arun Nair Manish Ballabh, Ruchika Uniyai, Raju Gupta, Bhagyashree Bhati, Anshumala Srivastava, Cirii Jose, Sakshi Gupta Rubina Malhotra Ravi Kapoor Partner and Leader Retaii and Consumer ravi. kapoor pwc. comPooja Sharma, Harshpai Singh, Harshit Suneja, Vidhi VaidAbout PwC  PwC, our purpose   build trust  society and solve important  oblems.    network  firms  151 countries with over 36o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, advisory and tax services. Find out more and teli  what matters  you  visiting   www. pwc. com. PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. 2o25 PwC. Ali rights reserved. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo Public  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. This document does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this document has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this document represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o25 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  February 2o25 -   44o76