Title: pwc_m2m-technologies
Date Published: 2013-11-14 14:27:05+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_m2m-technologies.pdf
Word Count: 3874
Sentence Count: 416
Average Sentence Length: 14.91

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 59
data: 35
services: 33
smart: 29
pwc: 28
water: 26
wili: 23
power: 23
devices: 22
management: 22
help: 20
industry: 20
www: 19
per: 19
http: 19
service: 18
etc: 18
com: 18
network: 17
business: 17

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

M2M technologies www. pwc.  White paper  M2M technologies Background  M2M  India  Market potentiai p11 Key issues for M2M  India p12 Conclusionp14 Contactsp17 Message The wireless subscriber base  India has reached 87o million, opening  new market for M2M which  already growing   fast pace worldwide. M2M technologies allow both wireless and wired systems  communicate with other devices and systems  the same ability. Innovative applications such  smart cars, connected homes, smart metering, remote management and industriai data collection wili  major revenue drivers  service providers worldwide  the near future. ,  ASSOCHAM, are  the firm belief that M2M along with cloud computing and IPv6 wili usher   major revolution  India. M2M can touch each and every citizen  life   profound way   financiai inclusion, security, tracking, health, etc. M2M wili pave the way for smart and efficient systems electricity, water, smart cities, etc. The increased efficiencies  every sphere  life wili help increase nationai productivity which  the need  the hour for our nation. ASSOCHAM wili continue  engage  providing  effective forum  facilitate dialogue between the Department  Telecom, the telecom industry and other stakeholders for ensuring  suitable M2M policy framework. . . Rawat Secretary Generai ASSOCHAM  PwC M2M technologies  . Background . M2M  India What  M2M? The term M2M, also commonly known  ubiquitous  pervasive computing refers  what  essentially  four-step process: data  generated, data  transmitted, data  analysed, and data acted upon. Other names that define M2M  its subsets include the internet  things, connected devices, remote monitoring and diagnostics, smart computing, smart metering and extended internet. M2M machine  machine leverages innovations  micro computing and wireless technology that allow embedded devices  collect and distribute reai-time data and has the potentiai  connect millions  machines today, and even more  the near future.  simple terms, M2M  defined   technology that enables electronic and mechanicai devices  communicate with each other seamlessly and perform actions without human intervention. The M2M system The M2M system uses device sensor, meter, etc.  capture event temperature, inventory levei, etc. , relayed through  communication network wireless, wired  hybrid   application software program that translates the captured event into meaningfui information . . items need   restocked that can  actioned subsequently. M2M works  four basic principles: Acquiring data through sensors, RFID and related devices Transmitting the data through the network channei Making decisions via intelligent application solutions Triggering  action, based  pre-determined rule-sets and analysed data. The M2M ecosystem Telcos have taken the lead  building M2M networks that deliver granular device data  centralised applications that turn  into meaningfui information. However, the M2M business   its nascent stage and business models are evolving, driven  various value propositions for the players  the ecosystem. The four key categories  the M2M ecosystem are  follows: Hardware and semiconductor company: These provide the end-point devices from where data  acquired sensors, GPS units, smart meters, RFID tags, video cameras, and smartcards. Communication service provider: These enable the transmission  data between machines. M2M service provider: These are verticai niche players providing specific M2M application solutions for data analysis for decision-making. System integrator: This  the technicai domain expertise  bind ali systems together. The roles  these players may overlap  various business models that wili evolve depending  the positioning created  each individuai player and specific market opportunities. Application  M2M M2M provides benefits  individuals, companies, communities and organisations  the public and private sectors across industries. Some  them are:  believe M2M has significant potentiai  India.  illustrate some  them,  expand here  four areas, namely smart city, smart grid, agriculture and healthcare. Smart city Smart city  inclusive  terms such  digitai city  connected cities. Smart cities   applied technology term often refers   collection  various M2M services for electricity, water supply, waste management, traffic solutions and are referred  , city basics.   estimated that every minute during the next  years,  Indians wili leave rurai India for urban areas.  this rate, India could need about 5oo new cities  the next two decades1.  there were ever  time  focus  developing solutions for sustainable cities,   now.  population centres grow, they are placing greater demands  city infrastructure and vitai services such  transportation, healthcare, education and public safety. Replacing actuai city infrastructure  often unrealistic  terms  cost and time. However, existing infrastructure can  infused with new intelligence. This means digitizing and connecting systems,  they can sense, analyse and integrate data, and respond intelligently  the needs  their jurisdictions. How can  smarter city help?  smart city   environment that involves many technologies and multiple agents: from sensors scattered throughout the whole city  collect any kind  data; traffic, water, energy, etc.  the cellular devices owned  citizens. This data must  managed   platform.  per  recent PwC Connected Life report pre - pared for the GSMA, traffic telematics could help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly two hours each  their time every week2. Estimates indicate that the economic benefits  the resulting increase  productivity could add more than  billion USD  the Chinese GDP each year3. Source: PwC analysis  PwC M2M technologies 7Smart mobility Issues How M2M could help Vehicular growth due  rapid urbanisation: Road traffic conditions  India are getting worse. The average number  vehicles has grown  the rate   annually,  the last five yrs . Vehicle penetration  metros such  Mumbai  suffering from about 59o vehicles per   road . Research  traffic shows that India loses around , ooo crore INR including fuei wastage  year due  traffic congestion  urban centres and highways6. Intelligent transportation system: Road network monitoring  determine traffic density reai time and recommend routes  reduce travei time and congestion.  allows users  identify the best route. Smart parking: Reai-time information about parking spots and notifications when restricted spots loading bay, bus sta - tions, disabled parking bay, etc. occupied. People can locate free parking spots and their price through  intuitive graphi - cai interface. Fleet management: Solution that identifies the positions  ali service operator vehicles reai time.  produces reports  plan, save and improve. Energy and environment Issues How M2M could help Commerciai buildings are the third largest consumers  energy  India after industry and agriculture. Buildings annually contribute  more than   the electricity used  India7. Indian cities alone generate more than 1oo million tonnes  solid waste  year. Indeed, forget the waste segregation and recycling directive  the Supreme Court, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates that     municipai waste  India remains simply uncollected. Water scarcity  fast becoming urban India  crisis, with the government  own data revealing that residents   out   major cities have  deai with daily shortages. Delhi uses  million   water per day. The New Delhi Jai Board supplies just over  million cubic metres per day, but only  million cubic metres actually reach consumers due  infrastructure problems, such  leaking pipes8. India  the largest groundwater user  the world, where  estimated   drinking water  groundwater dependent. Millions  women and children spend severai hours  day collecting water from distant sources  varying quality. Further, dysfunctionai water supply systems have led  loss  investment caused  poor maintenance, limited financing and overali failure  address sustainability challenges  the field. Smart grid and smart meters: Smart metering solutions  electricity, water and gas usage optimise energy efficiency through better insight  reai-time consumption, losses and fraud.  India, smart grids can help increase efficiency  power grids where Transmission and Distribution losses are almost   the totai installed capacity9. Smart buildings: Solutions for centralised and remote management  buildings  each building can help them communicate with one another through  united command centre and manage individuai building functions  reduce consumption  energy. Waste management: Waste management solution  integrate data from containers type, filling levei, etc and traffic information  the optimai route detection  the waste collection fleet.  GPS device  installed  almost the entire fleet  cleaning and waste collection vehicles. This makes  possible  optimise routes and save time and resources. Watering management:  controlling gardens soii humidity with  M2M solution, irrigation can  planned according  needs, thus saving costs. Low-cost M2M enabled water meters can enhance water pump monitoring and contribute  understanding user behaviour. Similarly, there could   high demand for M2M solutions  sanitation and irrigation. Case studies Sarvajal1o India has developed business models  the use  M2M for clean water services.  uses  combination  GSM enabled remote monitoring systems and water ATMs  provide clean water services  India. Soochak controller enables remote monitoring and controi  filtration operations. Water ATMs are managed via GSM and enable the use  stored value smart cards for water purchase. Their franchise business modei ensures water production. Locai distribution  managed centrally.   November 2o12, Sarvajai had 155 franchisees, impacting more than , ooo lives.  Media11 distributes daily newspapers  distribution centres across the country using contracted vehicles  pre- determined routes, thus ensuring timely, safe and accurate delivery. M2M based services enable cost efficiencies for fleet operations. They help reai-time monitoring  trucks and shipments. This helps streamline operations, minimise downtime and optimise asset performance.  per the PwC Connected Life report, reducing power theft and increasing usage efficiency via smart meters can save enough electricity  India  power more than ten million homes12. Smart grid Smart grid enables efficient functioning  improving reliability and economics for production and distribution  electricity. Technology that allows for two-way communication between the utility and its customers makes the grid smart. Smart grid consists  elements working together with the electricai grid  respond digitally  rapidly changing electric demand. Issues How M2M could help Demand and supply gap  the Indian power sector: With totai installed power generation capacity  about 223    Aprii 2o13, India  stili struggling  meet increasing power demand. According  the Centrai Electricai Authority CEA, the totai generation shortfali during 2o11- was .  with demand touching 937, 199 million units and generation lagging  857, 886 million units13. Western India witnessed the highest shortfali  .  during 2o11-. Southern India saw the largest demand-supply gap  .  during Aprii 2o1214. M2M can help reduce power theft and increase usage efficiency via smart meters, thus saving enough electricity  India  reduce the demand-supply gap. High transmission and distribution  and  loss: According  the CEA, totai  and  loss  India during 2o1o-  was about .  while aggregate technicai and commerciai  and  loss  about .  . This includes both theft and technicai losses. Further, for every  INR  power sold, the utilities are able  collect back only  paisa. The rest  either not collected   lost due   and  losses.  and  losses are the main cause  mounting financiai losses  state distribution utilities. According   Planning Commission report, the reported  and  loss  , 853 INR crore for  states  the 1oth Plan  underestimated  the actuai  and  losses are estimated  exceed , ooo INR crore. 16Smart grid represents  unprecedented opportunity  move the energy industry into  new era  reliability, availability and efficiency. Commerciai losses become measurable, traceable, and reducible when using more sensors and meters  the power grid. Solutions such  capability  remote disconnection  non-payment  consumers, automatic alarms when the network  being encroached   when people engage  theft, wili enable utilities  stop pilferage and avoid unsafe situations and accidents.  addition, optimai asset utilisation can  planned with online data  overloading transformers and network, which can help reduce and prevent failures. India  power grid blackout17:   July 2o12, much  India  electricity supply network collapsed  the country causing  estimated shortage   , affecting more than 68o million people; double the population  the .  caused business losses estimated  run into the hundreds  millions  dollars. The power outage wreaked havoc  businesses and travellers. About 2oo trains stopped operating for severai hours. Metro raii services  the nationai capitai  New Delhi and its suburbs were halted. About 27o miners were stuck  two underground coai mines  eastern India  elevators stopped working. When  power outage occurs, smart grids wili  able  detect and isolate the outages, containing them before they become large scale blackouts. This wili also help ensure that electricity recovery resumes quickly and strategically after  emergency. For instance, prioritising  routing electricity  emergency services.  PwC M2M technologies 9The -APDRP18 Restructured Accelerated Power Development and Reform Programme was focused  establishing baseline data, fix accountability, strengthen and upgrade sub-transmission network and reduce  and  losses   . Projects under the scheme involved base line establishment,  applications for energy auditing, strengthening  sub-transmission and distribution projects. Automated meter reading AMR: AMR has become  necessity for effective energy management, energy accounting and  overcome the problems  manuai reading. Geographic information systems GIS: This involves conducting GPS survey  consumer households, connected electricai feeders and distribution transformers. Consumers are then indexed and given  unique electricai address CIN, making  possible  segregate them for energy audit and accounting purposes. The geo-referenced data  also mapped  satellite imagery  appropriate scale. Agriculture The agriculture sector plays  vitai role  the development  India with over   the country  population deriving their subsistence from . The totai outlay  .  billion USD has been proposed for the Ministry  Agriculture  the Union Budget 2o13-, which   more than the revised estimates  2o12- 1321. Issues How M2M could help Low irrigable land:  per  World Bank report, only   the totai agriculturai land  India  irrigable. This  turn means dependencies  water pumps for irrigation. However, there   significant demand and supply gap  the power sec - tor  India leading  long hours  unscheduled power cuts and fluctuation. Remote-controlled water pump solutions: This can  used for automating the process  watering the crops through Zig - Bee, -, Bluetooth and related solutions  per availability  electricity.  channei for locai weather information: Lack  facility for accurate and timely information  localised weather con - ditions continues    challenge for the farmers. Weather monitoring systems: This can  used for agri-based industries where sensors wirelessly send data   centralised server and management  respective stakeholders can take predictive measures for one  business and needs. Lack  storage space for food items: India has more than   its population under poverty line, , ooo crore INR worth  grains and farm produce  wasted every year which accounts for   the GDP22. The reason behind such  huge wastage  non-availability  proper storage shelters. M2M-based food supply chain management FSCM: These systems can help curb this menace  collecting information about food stock and raising  alarm when the expiry date  nearing. Case studies Nano-Ganesh, Water Pump Control23   cellular- based wireless remote controi and alarm system for water pumps designed considering unfavourable irrigation conditions. This counters routine problems like fluctuation  power supply, difficult terrain, fear  animals  way  pumps, hazardous locations  pumps, open wiring, shock hazards, rains etc. Also,  the rurai water supply schemes, there  inadequate coordination between tank levels and the water source. Ali that Nano-Ganesh needs   low cost wireless connectivity with voice transmission and Duai Tone Multi Frequency DTMF transmission available  most handsets.  far, , ooo remote controllers are  use and have improved the livelihoods  , ooo people with , ooo rurai technicians getting  additionai source  income; 18o, ooo   water, 1o8o . .  electricity, 18o   fuei and    soii was saved  the year 2o1o  installing , ooo Nano-Ganesh sets; 72o, ooo USD saved  labour costs  the year 2o1o24. Food Supply chain management FSCM using LTE network cum wireless sensor network25 solution  being developed  Nippon Electricai Company. FSCM consist  ali activities  movement  food from producers  consumers like purchase, storage, transportation, distribution and processing. This helps  providing better management and tracking  food items, distribution  reasonable prices  controlled markets, better price controls  private markets and ensuring food security through better management for PDS and during disasters like droughts, etc. Some  its uses are: During transit,  case  theft Active Transport Tracking Device ATTD device would raise alarms  both the buyer and seller Check weight periodically and thereby controi leakage and pilferage Detect and raise alarm when the food item expires FSCM system with pesticides feature support sensor network would also help  pesticides controi when  detects the weeds, fungus, bacteria and microorganism growth. Case studies The UHBVN, Haryana19 pilot project covers , 914 consumers and 531 distribution transformers, for approximately 131.   input energy consumption. The proposed project area  covered under the RAPDRP Scheme for  implementation and system strengthening. The functionality  peak load management  proposed  implementing automated metering infrastructure AMI for residentiai consumers and industriai consumers. The CESC, Mysore2o project involves , 824 consumers residentiai, commerciai, industriai and agriculturai and 512 irrigation pumps sets covering over  feeders and 473 distribution transformers. Together, they account for input energy  151.  . Peak load management PLM and outage management  are proposed  implementing AMI and integration  distributed generation and micro grid integration. Other possibilities include functionalities such  agriculture demand side management DSM with community portai, consumer portai  support DSM and demand response , employee portai for knowledge- sharing and benefit realisation, KPI based MIS and data analytics for decision suppor .  PwC M2M technologies 11Healthcare The Indian healthcare industry, which comprises hospitals, medicai infrastructure, medicai devices, clinicai trials, outsourcing, telemedicine, health insurance and medicai equipment,  expected  reach  expenditure levei  some 16o billion USD  2o17.  Issues How M2M could help? Lack  basic medicai Infrastructure  rurai areas: The totai hospitai bed density  India had increased  .  per , ooo  2o1o, but remains significantly lower than the WHO guideline  .  beds per , ooo. Underutilisation  existing resources further compounds the problem  miserable infra - structure. The bed density  rurai centres  even lower. 3oRemote patient monitoring: Patients are provided with wireless devices enabling them  monitor their vitals and conditions, for example blood pressure, diabetes,  cardiac problems. Measurements can  taken  patients manually  captured  sensors and sent automatically  doctors.  allows constant monitoring  health, early spotting  warnings, and rapid application  diagnosis. This can help increase reach  medicai attention  rurai centres. Inadequate and underutilised health workforce: The totai number  allopathic doctors and nurses  the country  less than WHO benchmark  .  doctors per , ooo populations,  .  per , ooo people. Further, the available health work force  not utilised properly. Organisation  healthcare work: Cellular devices falling into this group streamline work  healthcare professionals while they are  the   are working remotely. They allow scanning  patient monitoring equipment, update medicai records and share information with medicai staff. Poorly maintained medicai equipments and drugs: Most  the public health facilities have poorly maintained medicai equipments and poor medicine management process. Medicai asset tracking solutions: This helps  tracking the location and condition  drugs and equipment for security and maintenance needs.  improves productivity with visibility  asset availability.  per the PwC Connected Life report: Increased adoption  mHealth solutions could save over  million lives  Sub-Saharan Africa over the next five years26 mHealth solutions could help cut healthcare costs  OECD countries  over 4oo billion USD  2o1727 The use  cellular technologies for remote monitoring, disease management, and preventive medicine for the elderly could reduce Japan  healthcare spend   billion USD  2o1728. M2M technology  widely considered  the next big thing,    forecasted that  coming years the number  devices with connectivity  machine  machine connectivity wili outnumber human centric connections. However, the actuai mainstream adoption has kicked  during the last few years.  per multiple research studies, M2M,  nascent industry sector untii the last few years has embarked  its growth phase.   widely acknowledged  industry leaders that M2M has huge growth potentiai. Although, there are many M2M service offerings  India, the actuai growth wili start within next few years.  per the Cyber Media research report 2o12, India M2M modules device market generated 2732 million USD 134.  crore INR revenues  2o11 and  expected  generate  .  million USD 413.  crore INR  2o15, growing   CAGR  .  . M2M service expansion Even though the growth potentiai for M2M  big,   essentially  long taii business.  addition, long taii characteristics; the M2M average revenue per connection ARPC  typically only  fraction  human average revenue per user ARPU, but the volumes are expected  compensate for the same.  the technology side, the cost  sensors and meters are expected  fali  levels that wili spark widespread use. Efforts are   governments and industry groups  work together  standardise networking interfaces and technologies and help evolve  the point where data can flow freely among sensors, computers, and actuators. Consequently,  the recent past, M2M services uptake  picking  globally especially  sectors like security, automotive, transport and logistics, utilities, retaii and financiai services, etc. Case study Screening for orai cancer, point--care support and diagnostics mHealth involves screening high-risk individuals for orai cancer using smartphones with camera. The condition  either diagnosed  using pre- loaded software   uploading data  the hospitai  electronic medicai records EMR system for specialist feedback. Treatment  advised through interactive videos  phone  referred   specialist. The open source telemedicine platform allows medicai investigations   encoded   smartphones;  enables ECG, ultrasound and -ray and -scanners, and also two-way sharing  medicai data between  centrai medicai record database and the phone, linking specialists with clinicians. 313. Market potentiai  PwC M2M technologies 134. Key issues for M2M  India Diverse technology standards M2M services  based  various access technology standards due  the fact that each type  M2M services has different requirement for mobility, power consumption, range, ease  roli out etc. M2M services which  not require mobility and are concentrated  limited geography are based  wireless personai area networks WPANs. This includes Bluetooth, ZigBee, 6LowPlan, etc. and proprietary standards like -Wave and ANT.  the other hand M2M services with requirement  mobility and wider range are based  wireless technology standards like  , IMAX, Satellite, etc. Lack  guidelines for technology standards and protocols limit the benefits driven from uniformity and interoperability leading  complicated product lifecycle. For example, usage  propriety standard for smart grid potentially may lead  significant investment  inefficient legacy network. The criticai link between the M2M network and the core enterprise systems  the API,  standards based interface that allows reai time data exchange and its standardisation wili pave the way for reai time interfaces that are lightweight, high scale and continuously available. Ali these characteristics are fundamentai for M2M communication. Resale  telecommunication services  non telecom operator M2M service provider There are various M2M services for which  third party M2M service provider may need  procure SIM  bandwidth from  telecommunications service provider. These third parties may thus interface into the TSP  network. For example, providing smart grid managed services   power distribution company which includes bundled services consisting  connectivity for the M2M devices.  per current licensing norms this would contravene clause  resale  the telecom services and needs   reviewed  the context  the emerging M2M opportunity. Scarcity  numbers M2M devices require  numbering scheme  function  the network. These could   addresses  IMSI MSISDN equivalent. Although essentially  data based service,  many cases voice and SMS services would also  used  M2M. MSISDNs and IMSIs are scarce resources that may diminish due  large number  devices. Also, availability  IPv4 addresses  limited and may not  sufficient for M2M. However, there has been has been wider adoption  IPv6 address globally which has significantly larger series  address available.  standardised framework for addressing the M2M devices  needed  address issues around scalability, security and accountability. Identity management: Know your customer KYC Telecommunications operators are required  follow stringent norms for subscriber identification. The existing KYC guidelines are based  the principle  traceability  the end user human being. However, mostly for M2M services, the M2M device may not  directly related   particular user human being. For example,  fleet management services, although the device  provided  the logistics service provider procured from telecommunications operator, the vehicle may also  owned  the driver. Furthermore, the following cases can make KYC even more complex: M2M equipment may change ownership. For example,  car fitted with M2M technology for security, tracking and performance monitoring would change ownership  and when the car ownership  changed. There could  numerous M2M devices deployed   single user  home and work. Also,  per current licence conditions, operators are not allowed  send SIM cards out  India without activation. However,  cases where the SIM card  required   embedded  the product consumer goods, vehicles, etc during manufacture, such KYC guidelines may  affected.  this context, the KYC framework needs   reviewed. Data privacy and security Considering the significant proliferation  M2M services  health, transport, electronics, power and energy and essentially every other sector,  large amount  information wili  generated, transmitted and collated. Data privacy and security for both individuals and enterprises would   major concern and potentially  impediment for larger uptake,  the absence  safeguards. With advent  cloud computing and innovative service models such  infrastructure  service IAAS and platform  service PaaS,  plethora  M2M applications and databases wili  hosted  the cloud. For instance, one  the key issues   noted for hosting  application  cloud  the fact that  per the existing telecom licensing guidelines, subscriber data cannot  taken outside India. However,  cloud computing many  the applications wili  hosted  servers located outside India posing both  regulatory compliance challenge and  data security issue. Hence data privacy and security issues wili need   addressed accordingly. Spectrum availability Currently M2M services make extensive use  licenced and unlicenced spectrum bands. For unlicenced spectrum, there   pertinent question about adequacy  availability. This may happen  increased number  M2M devices utilise unlicenced spectrum, especially .  GHz globally harmonised through wireless personai area networks ZigBee, -, etc. Also the performance  these unlicenced bands would deteriorate significantly due  overcrowding  M2M devices. For licenced spectrum,  and  spectrum band are preferred access medium for M2M devices. However, given the inherent scarcity  these spectrum bands along with longevity  M2M devices expected  last longer than the access technology changes. Roaming Considering the significance  some  the M2M services reai-time health monitoring, security, etc, devices may  required  choose  alternative back- network during downtime, persisting dark spot  while roaming. Hence, there may  need for  separate roaming agreement framework for M2M services which can  based  the speciai numbering scheme identified them. Intra circle roaming  another essentiai aspect. Legai liabilities M2M services  future may become very pervasive, which wili make certain M2M services such  healthcare monitoring, intelligent driving system  automobiles, etc extremely criticai Such M2M services can  vulnerable  service failure which may lead  the loss  life and money. Further, any breach  data privacy could also result   legai liability for the service providers.  such cases,   important  develop  clear framework  tackle liabilities.  PwC M2M technologies  Conclusion The big growth potentiai  M2M businesses  beyond doubt  indicated  the various market researches. M2M has the potentiai  not only transform business for enterprises  bringing  efficiencies but can also touch millions  life through benefits derived through usefui applications for medicai diagnosis and treatment, cleaner water supply, improved irrigation, energy conservation, etc. Currently, M2M services have started growing  India and are driven mainly  enterprises looking for benefits  M2M  addition  the various initiatives driven  government. However, the actuai growth wili kick  following enabling regulations, falling cost  the overali M2M services and devices and innovative services for masses. The business models are currently driven  device centric M2M solution provided  niche M2M service providers. However, with the evolving new value proposition for other players like telecom operator and system integrator, new business models wili evolve with the varying roles for each  the players. Consensus and resolution  key issues related  technicai standardisation and regulations  the government and industry groups wili   long way  unleashing the true potentiai  the M2M services. . http: www. ibm. com smarterplanet   sustainable_cities ideas . PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years  Asia, 2o13 . PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years  Asia, 2o13 . http: www. nhai. org roadnetwork. htm . http: www. neoncarrot. .   2oaboutindia india- 2ostatistics 2o1. htmi . http: articles. timesofindia. indiatimes. com 2o12-- india 3192o3o7_1_toli-plazas-road-space-stoppage . http: www. pnni. gov main publications externai technical_reports PNNL-19487. pdf . Running  Empty, Globai Envision, July 2oo7, http: www. globalenvision. org library  1685 . http: www. enpreview. com article. php? ItemId 228 CategoryId  . Sustainable Energy Water Access through M2M Connectivity  Michaei Nique and Firas Arab . Trimble transport logistics http: 21o. 21o. . 1o7 TMT case_studies. php . PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years  Asia, 2o13 . www. cea. nic.  reports yearly lgbr_report. pdf . http: economictimes. indiatimes. com news news--industry energy power demand-supply-gap-between-power- generation-demand-touched----aprii-according--cea articleshow 13395891. cms . http: articles. economictimes. indiatimes. com 2o13-- news 42o42o45_1_power-plants-atc-losses-additionai-power . http: www. electricalmonitor. com PrintArticle. aspx? aid 1552 sid  . India  Mass Power Failure Worst Ever  World History Outlook. Press Trust  India. . Ministry  Power http: www. powermin. nic.  distribution apdrp projects pdf Re_Structured_APDRP_during_XI_Plan. pdf . http: indiasmartgrid. org  Lists Projects DispForm. aspx?   ContentTypeId oxo1ooA66C1B8C23DC784C9Bo36o 5F187DDoC5 . http: indiasmartgrid. org  Lists Projects DispForm. aspx?   ContentTypeId oxo1ooA66C1B8C23DC784C9Bo36o 5F187DDoC5 . http: www. ibef. org industry agriculture-india. aspx . www. sustainuance. com think-before-you-throw . http: www. Nano-Ganesh. com . http: defindia. net files 2o13  CaseStudy3--NanoGanesh. pdf . www. gisfi. org wg_documents GISFI_IoT_2o11o672. doc . PwC-GSMA report: Connected Life - The impact  the Connected Life over the next five years, 2o13 . PwC-GSMA report: Connected Life - The impact  the Connected Life over the next five years, 2o13 . PwC-GMSA report: Connected Life- The next five years  Asia, 2o13 . http: www. ibef. org industry healthcare-india. aspx . Nationai Rurai Health Mission NRHM Data . www. mhealthinfo. org .  USD  assumption taken for comparison purpose . http: cmrindia. com india-wireless-machine--machine-modules-market-crosses-inr-13o-crore--2o11References About ASSOCHAM The knowledge architect  corporate India Evolution  value creator ASSOCHAM initiated its endeavour  value creation for Indian industry  192o. Having  its fold more than 4oo chambers and trade associations, and serving more than , , ooo members from ali over India,  has witnessed upswings  weli  upheavals  the Indian economy, and has played  catalytic role  shaping the trade, commerce and industriai environment  the country. Today, ASSOCHAM has emerged  the fountainhead  knowledge for Indian industry, which  ali set  redefine the dynamics  growth and development  the technology driven cyber age  the knowledge based economy. ASSOCHAM  seen   forcefui, proactive, forward-looking institution equipping itself  meet the aspirations  corporate India  the new world  business.   working towards creating  environment conducive for India business  compete globally. ASSOCHAM derives its strength from its promoter chambers and other industry and regionai chambers and associations spread ali over the country. Vision Empower Indian enterprises  inculcating knowledge that wili  the catalyst  growth  the barrierless technology driven globai market and help them upscale, align and emerge  formidable players  their respective business segments. Mission   representative organ  corporate India, ASSOCHAM articulates the genuine, legitimate needs and interests  its members. Its mission   impact the policy and legislative environment    foster balanced economic, industriai and sociai development.  believe education, , , health, corporate sociai responsibility and environment   the criticai success factors. Members: Our strength ASSOCHAM represents the interests  more than , , ooo direct and indirect members across the country. Through its heterogeneous membership, ASSOCHAM combines the entrepreneuriai spirit and business acumen  owners with management skills and expertise  professionals  set itself apart   chamber with  difference. Currently, ASSOCHAM has more than 1oo nationai councils covering the entire gamut  economic activities  India.  has been especially acknowledged   significant voice  Indian industry  the field  corporate sociai responsibility, environment and safety,  and labour affairs, corporate governance, information technology, biotechnology, telecom, banking and finance, company law, corporate finance, economic and internationai affairs, mergers and acquisitions, tourism, civii aviation, infrastructure, energy and power, education, legai reforms, reai estate and rurai development, competency building and skili development  mention  few. Insight into new business models ASSOCHAM has been  significant contributory factor  the emergence  new-age Indian corporates, characterised   new mindset and globai ambition for dominating internationai business. The Chamber has addressed itself  key areas such  India   investment destination, achieving internationai competitiveness, promoting internationai trade, corporate strategies for enhancing stakeholder value, government policies  sustaining India  development, infrastructure development for enhancing India  competitiveness, building Indian MNCs and the role  the financiai sector  the catalyst for India  transformation. ASSOCHAM derives its strengths from the following promoter chambers: Bombay Chamber  Commerce and Industry, Mumbai; Cochin Chambers  Commerce and Industry, Cochin; Indian Merchant  Chamber, Mumbai; Madras Chamber  Commerce and Industry, Chennai; PHD Chamber  Commerce and Industry, New Delhi and has over  lakh direct and indirect members. Together,  can make  significant difference  the burden that our nation carries and bring   bright, new tomorrow for our nation. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts . . Rawat Secretary Generai emaii: . . rawat assocham. com The Associated Chambers  Commerce Industry  India ASSOCHAM Corporate Office: , Sardar Patei Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi-11o o21 Tei: o11-4655o555 Hunting Line Fax: o11-23o17oo8, 23o17oo9Ritesh Agrawai Senior Manager - Telecom Phone:  98867o9583 Emaii: ritesh.  . pwc. com Ashwani Kumar Manager - Telecom Phone:  971811141o Emaii: ashwani. kumar . pwc. com Mohammad Chowdhury India Leader - Telecom Phone:  9167665544 Emaii: mohammad. chowdhury . pwc. com www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  117 - November 2o13 M2M. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India