Title: Invading privacy: Cyber crimes on the rise
Date Published: 2013-04-23 05:11:51-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_invading-privacy-cyber-crimes-on-the-rise.pdf
Word Count: 4384
Sentence Count: 357
Average Sentence Length: 18.74

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
cyber: 97
india: 61
security: 52
organisations: 50
information: 48
pwc: 44
data: 34
crime: 33
corporate: 30
attacks: 29
card: 29
crimes: 27
rise: 26
cloud: 25
company: 25
credit: 25
skimming: 24
website: 24
cases: 23
phishing: 22

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Invading privacy: Cyber crimes  the rise www. pwc. com india   glance: Executive summary   Introduction   Hacktivism and mass defacement   Corporate espionagePg1o Phishing and Skimming Pg12 Cyber crime:  internai threat Pg17 BYOD   Cloud computing   Cyber threats: Adopting proactive approach  tackle itPg  ConclusionPg   PwC Whether  infiltration  criminally  politically motivated,  cyber attack can have  negative impact   company  value, reputation and ability  generate revenue. Businesses face serious threats from cyber criminals and senior management need  take these risks more seriously. The PwC report, Invading privacy: Cyber crimes  the rise, assesses key emerging cyber crime trends related  organisations  India.  provides analysis  trends such  hacking and website defacement, corporate espionage, phishing and skimming, emergence  BYOD and the growth  cloud computing.  hope the report plays  important role  helping enterprises shape their efforts and strategies  manage the emerging risks posed  cyber crimes and gain competitive advantage  today  technology-driven environment.  look forward  your comments and feedback. Sivarama Krishnan Executive Director PricewaterhouseCoopers, India Emaii: sivarama. krishnan . pwc. com Preface Cyber crimes  the rise  Executive summary With increasing dependency  technology   celi phones, tablets  laptops,  new breed  tech-savvy fraudsters  coming out with new and more innovative ways  carrying out cyber attacks, thus posing  new set  challenges. Our analysis reveals the following key emerging trends  cyber crime pertaining  organisations  India:  tremendous rise  the number  hacking incidents reported and  increasing risk  website defacement faced  government and private organisations. Corporate espionage emerging   key cyber threat for business. Identity theft through phishing and skimming  one  the biggest pain points for the financiai services sector. Internai stakeholders the gravest challenge  information security. Emergence  Bring Your Own Device BYOD based access  corporate systems. Malware attacks coupled with employees access  sociai media websites  their personai devices pose serious security challenges  Indian organisations. Growth  cloud computing resulting  cyber crime exposure The rising trend  hacktivism  India which involves hacking and website defacement  fraudsters motivated  politicai causes  becoming  increasing concern for the government  weli  private organisations. Using Distributed Deniai  Service DDoS attacks  one  the methods, hackers are able  access  organisation  sensitive data leading  data loss and reputationai damage. Organisations are using every possible opportunity  gain  edge over their competitors  bringing together strategy, technology and market intelligence. Consequently, the threat landscape resulting from corporate espionage has evolved, gone digitai and  certainly more dangerous. With the emergence  online and mobile banking, the financiai services sector has become increasingly vulnerable  cyber crimes, particularly phishing and skimming. Phishing and skimming attacks involve identity thefts  stealing confidentiai and personai information  customers. This not only leads  reputationai damage and customer loss but also involves heavy financiai losses that have   ultimately borne  the bank  the financiai institution.  organisations  infrastructure  becoming more sophisticated, internai stakeholders are using advanced tools  commit cyber crimes within the organisation. Cyber attacks occur more from internai sources rather than externai. With more opportunities for cyber criminals  access sensitive data, the lack   robust legislative framework and inadequate cloud computing strategies  organisations, the risk relating  data privacy and security could potentially increase  India. Undoubtedly, cyber security has become one  the significant concerns for organisations and protection  information assets has become top priority for business leaders  corporate India.  PwC Introduction Cyber security risks and the increasing awareness, occurrence and impact  cyber incidents confronting corporations are  rapidly growing concern  investors, senior executives, and policy setters. Driving this concern are unprecedented corporate dependencies  digitai technologies which are growing   exponentiai rate. PwC published  study  insider threat  collaboration with the Data Security Councii  India DSCI and the Globai Economic Crime Survey  2o11, followed  the State  Information Security Survey India  2o13. This report builds  these surveys.  have used secondary research  PwC proprietary data and publicly available information  highlight some  the major cyber threats emerging  India.  the past, cyber security was classified    issue, resulting   communications chasm between business managers and security professionals.  has now taken priority  board meetings. According  the PwC Economic Crime Survey India Report, 2o11, cyber crime has been reported  one  the top economic crimes experienced  organisations  India out  the four economic crimes--fraud, cyber crime, bribery and corruption and asset misappropriation. Cyber crime ranks  one  the top four economic crimes perceived  Indian organisations. .  .  .  .  Asset misappropriationAccounting fraudBribery and corruptionCyber crime2o11Top economic crimes experienced  organisations  India Cyber crimes  the rise  Cyber crime has been increasing   alarming rate  India. The number  cyber crime cases registered under the  Act  2o11 were 1791,   increase since 2o1o .  per PwC analysis, this number  expected  increase  2636  2o13,  173 increase since 2o1o. With  increase  cyber crime organisations can build their competitive advantage  taking  strategic view  threat management that builds operationai resilience and enables sustainable growth. While the threat  crisis  embedded  doing business today,   worth noting that opportunity does not exist without threat. 28842o9661791213o2636 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13Number  cyber crime cases registered under the  Act  Crime  India report 2oo7-2o11, Nationai Crime Record Bureau  PwCHacktivism and mass defacement:  nuisance  organisations Hacking has been one  the most commonly used methods  cyber attack. According   Nationai Crime Records Bureau NCRB, there has been  tremendous rise  the number  hacking incidents reported  India. The number  hacking cases registered under the  Act increased from 51o  2o1o  983  2o111.  per PwC analysis, this number  expected  increase  145o  2o13,  184 since 2o1o. 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13Number  hacking cases registered under the  Act Cyber crimes  the rise  Hacktivism Adding hacking  politicai activism gives  hacktivism,  phenomenon that has emerged recently  India, marking 2o11  the year  the hack.  addition  website defacement and distributed deniai  service, hackers have been making use  sociai media for newer sophisticated attacks. Hacking attacks are tailored  target  particular organisation  entity and are often focussed  gathering sensitive data with monetary value. However, recent trends have shown  change  the data security landscape. Nearly14, ooo websites were hacked  cyber criminals tili October 2o12,  increase  nearly  from 2oo9. Traditionally, companies and organisations have been trying  fight off digitai attacks  cyber criminals looking for information that can  sold for money, but the aim  hacktivist groups   get sensitive information belonging  the organisation for sociai  politicai purposes and not for financiai gain. Hacktivists typically carry out DDoS attacks  disrupt  website  operations. 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12Others. org. net. . comNumber  Indian websites defaced Defaced websites have been  common concern among government departments and private organisations. Website defacement   form  hacking.  involves substituting the home page   website   system cracker that breaks into  web server and alters the hosted website, creating one  his own. The totai number  websites defaced  2o12 was 23o14,  282 increase since 2oo9.  these, websites with. com and.  domains experienced the highest number  attacks.  Crime  India report 2oo7-2o11, Nationai Crime Record Bureau  PwCThe protests continue 2o12 was the year  protests across the country. The worldwide group  web hacking activists, known  Anonymous held protests  severai cities against what they claimed was the growing censorship  the internet  the government  the country.  brief overview  Anonymous India  infamous hacks during 2o12   follows: Anonymous takes down the website  Indian politicai party and the Supreme Court  IndiaA day after the government proposed  new plan  censor the internet, the websites   Indian politicai party and the Supreme Court  India went offline for  couple  hours, caused   attack  Anonymous India. Anonymous hacks into leading broadband and telecommunications company serversA leading broadband and telecommunication company  customers were unable  access Facebook, Twitter and other sites for severai hours after hacker group Anonymous reportedly hacked into their servers. Defacing  politicai party websitesAnonymous downed  politicai party  website and the parent party  website, with  message and  nice background score. This was  retaliation for the opposition  not having done anything  curb the government  web censorship policies. State-owned telecom company website down for six hoursAn Indian state-owned telecommunications company website was attacked  Anonymous, accusing the company  censoring content  the internet. Officiai website   minister defacedAnonymous hacked into the officiai website  the  minister and defaced  with unflattering comments about his mentai abilities. Anonymous India brings down  educationai institution  websiteWebsites  one  the major educationai institutions was hacked into and brought down for nearly nine hours  this group. Cyber crimes  the rise  The impact Hacktivism results  major reputationai damage  targeted organisations and government agencies. Hacktivists use sociai media  publicly announce the details  their attacks. This also has  impact  the brand value   company that has been  victim  hacking  customers lose faith  the organisation  information security. Moreover, hacktivism leads  high-profile information breaches and data loss. The organisations targeted  hacktivists are not the only victims. The spilling  personai details, such  login credentials, emaii addresses and even physicai addresses puts many innocent people   greater risk  phishing, spamming and identity theft. The impact caused  this phenomenon  evident from the incidents highlighted below:  2Leading fast food service restaurant  India website hacked, customer details leakedLeading software corporation  store hacked, usernames and passwords stolen India  September 2o12, the Indian website   popular fast food retailer was hacked into   Turkish hacker group. Details  about , ooo accounts, including names, phone numbers, emaii addresses, passwords and city details were leaked. The company  India website was hacked into using the SQL injection method and remote file inclusion, one  the most common methods for stealing private data from web databases. Through this, the hacker typically tricks the site  database into revealing data that should  hidden  injecting certain commands. Source: www. business-standard. com  February 2o12, hackers, allegedly belonging   Chinese group, struck  the company  website, stole login IDs and passwords  people who had used the website for shopping. Following, the members  the group posted  message  the company  website saying unsafe system wili  baptised. The website seemed  have been taken offline  the software corporation. Source: The Times  India  PwCCorporate espionage: India  new booming sector With increased economic pressure, ever increasing competition and proliferation  new technology platforms, companies are using every possible opportunity  position their brand, launch new products and retain the best people through personai websites and sociai media. Consequently, the threat landscape resulting from corporate espionage has evolved and has now gone digitai, becoming more dangerous. Corporate spying  prevalent  sectors such  electronics and infrastructure, which are considered more vulnerable  fraudulent practices. Facing the threat are  organisation  intellectuai property  electronic communications and files, research and development   reports, large databases, sensitive networks and information like research and development processes, innovations, product specifications, new marketing and sales strategies. Corporate espionage cases are being reported from across sectors --BPO, infrastructure, FMCG, banking, insurance, manufacturing and telecom sector. Over   the Indian organisations across various sectors have engaged  corporate espionage. According   survey  the Associated Chambers  Commerce and Industry  India ASSOCHAM more than   companies operating  various sectors across India have been engaged  corporate spying  gain  edge over their competitors and have even started spying  their employees via sociai networking websites. Corporate espionage has become  major concern for organisations  almost  CEOs are using services  detectives and surveillance agencies  spy  their -employees, employees lifestyle, know their whereabouts constantly apart from the usuai pre and post-employment verification . Some recent cases  Economic Times 2o11 Corruption trouble: Corporate espionage  rise  India  2o13, the customer data   reputed private insurance company was stolen  three people and used for negative publicity  the company, its policies and schemes. These individuals were owners   rivai company and indulged  corporate espionage. They breached the Information and Technology Act and section 379  the Indian Penai Code for committing theft  customer data. Source: DNA  2o12,  leading multinationai conglomerate company levelled corporate espionage charges against  employee  another conglomerate for stealing  particularly sensitive display technology used  smartphones and other mobile devices. Samsung  seeking recourse  the courts demanding the accused firm  make  public apology pay  fine  roughly about , ooo USD and guarantee that  wili not steai engineers moving forward. The accused  filing  countersuit alleging defamation. Six employees  the accused are expected   involved  this. The judgement  stili awaited. Source: www. intelNews. org Private insurance company data stolen  leading multinationai conglomerate company levelled corporate espionage Cyber crimes  the rise  Organisations are increasingly using sociai networking sites  keep  track  their rivai companies and employees. Sociai networking sites such  Facebook, Orkut, YouTube, Twitter, Google, Linkedin and others are being heavily used  dig out relevant information about rivai companies, their schemes, policies, new products, confidentiai information, financiai details, prior announcement  senior management moving out and attrition  employees. According  the ASOCHAM survey  top officials  various companies have been  victim  corporate espionage via sociai media.   possible for anyone, including competitors,  learn about  organisation  core values, hierarchy, communication style, organisationai motivation, industry environment, employee morale, business challenges, systems and processes, competitive information and intellectuai property through direct revelations, unmonitored tweets and logicai deductions gathered from sociai media. Corporate espionage  not only prevalent  corporate levei but  being practiced   individuai levei  weli. The impact Corporate espionage within the workplace and corporate environment can have  devastating impact  the business entity  which   occurring. The losses can also have  impact  the confidence  the locai, state  nationai economic conditions based  the size  the business affected  such  activity.   difficult  quantify the potentiai losses due  corporate espionage since   not easy  measure what effect  stolen  campaign might have had,  how  stolen design might have dominated the market. But  Corporate espionage via sociai media rampant  India Inc. : Assocham Survey 2o12  http: www. globalpost. com dispatch india 1o1223 industriai-espionage-corporate-indiait  hitting the Indian market   big way.  theft and theft  confidentiai data are likely  happen via corporate espionage.   instance  2o11,  leading manufacturer  engineering solutions agreed  pay Pennsylvania-based company  million USD  settle  lawsuit over the alleged theft  proprietary water purification technology  PwCPhishing and skimming:  epidemic for financiai services Majority  the banks  India have migrated  online and mobile banking. Most  the transactions are conducted via payment cards, debit and credit cards, and electronic channels such  ATMs. Consequently, both private and public banks,  weli  financiai institutions  India are becoming increasingly vulnerable  sophisticated cyber attacks. According  the RBI, 8322 cases  cyber frauds were reported  2o12 amounting  527 million INR. Although the number  cases reported has decreased from 15o18 cases reported  2o1o, the amount involved  such cases has increased from 4o5  527 million INR  2o12 implying that the average value per cyber fraud case has increased significantly. 83224o4.  367.  526.  2o1o 2o11 2o12Totai cases reported Amount involved million INR Totai cases reported Amount involved million INR One  the most common forms  cyber attacks relating  banks  phishing,  financiai scam  which fraudsters use sociai engineering techniques and spyware  malware codes  steai confidentiai financiai and personai information  customers such  bank account numbers, credit card numbers, internet banking passwords, etc. These details can also  used for siphoning money off customers bank accounts,  loss that has   ultimately borne  the banks themselves. Typicai phishing attacks involve sending emails messages  customers containing logos  images impersonating   financiai institutions. These emails usually contain  web link which   malicious web page that looks exactly like the financiai institution  webpage. Majority  these attacks are done for financiai gain. Cyber crimes  the rise   2o12, there was 187 increase  phishing attacks  various Indian banks.  per  recent study India ranks among the top five countries targeted  phishing attacks, accounting for   the world  totai phishing attacks. One  four phishing attacks used the.  domain and involved targeting the bank balances  customers. Although these attacks originated from ali over the world, Hyderabad hosted the second highest number  phishing attacks  the country. Interestingly, emerging cities such  Chandigarh, Bhubaneshwar, Surat, Cochin, Jaipur, Vishakhapatnam and Indore are also experiencing phishing attacks. Some recent cases RBI warns against fraud emailsIn May 2o12, the RBI warned against fraud emails from maii : alert rbi. org. The mails were sent  unscrupulous entities offering  new online security platform and asking customers  share information. According  the maii, the new online security platform offered  prevent online identity theft  internet banking. The emaii further asked the recipient  download attachment and update their information. The RBI cautioned the public not  open such emails  try  download the attachment  their computer. Source: The Economic Times Police bust gang  fraudsters phishing bank accountsIn Aprii 2o12,  Indore-based gang  fraudsters involved  phishing the accounts  customers across the country  two leading banks  India were busted. The gang had opened fictitious accounts  their names   least two dozen different banks  the city. These accounts were utilised  siphon off the money from the account holders  these banks through phishing. The money was later withdrawn from the fictitious account through ATM  cheques. The accused have been booked under section 419, 42o IPC and   Act. Further investigations are . Source: The Times  India  Symantec Intelligence Report, May 2o12  PwCSociai media sites such  Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn might not  the reai source  cyber crime, but criminals can use them effectively phishing attacks. For example, they may use these techniques  collect information   target also known  spear phishing, research members  staff,  instali malware  the target  computer, very easily. Credit cards have always been one  the biggest targets for cyber criminals; the most common form  credit card frauds involves skimming. With the rapid increase  the use  plastic money, India  witnessing  tide  skimming frauds. Skimming   -tech forgery that involves copying  customer and card information stored  the magnetic strip   credit card, including the CVV number,  using  electronic device known  the skimmer. When the credit card  swiped through such  device,  reads and captures the information stored  the credit card. This information  used  the fraudster  create  cloned card which can then  used  make unauthorised and fraudulent transactions. Skimming frauds are extremely difficult  detect  the credit card  not actually stolen  reported. The customer  whom the card belongs becomes aware  the fraud only when  transaction  made using the cloned cards. Between Oct-Dec 2o12, there were 159o cases  credit card frauds reported involving  amount  .  million INR. The number  credit card frauds  increasing despite the various proactive measures taken  Indian banks  set  internai controi systems  mitigate frauds relating  skimming  cloning  credit cards.  per the RBI statistics,  the quarter ended December 2o12, there were 159o cases  credit card reported involving  .  million INR  compared  1327 cases reported  the quarter ended September 2o12 involving .  million INR. The two most common types  skimming attacks occur  the following locations: ATMs PoS point  sale, either  employees who use handheld skimming devices  fraudsters who swap PoS devices with devices that have been manipulated  capture unauthorised card information. . . , swiping credit cards  restaurants  petroi pumps. Cyber crimes  the rise  Most banks believe that the card information  captured through retaii outlets that have been compromised. The cases range from fraudsters using captured information for making internationai online transactions  for transactions used  locai shops. Despite implementing various controls, credit card skimming continues  rise. Skimming fraud hits Chandigarh petroi pumpsIn January 2o13, two residents  Chandigarh received credit card bills for shopping done  Mumbai and Hyderabad. The money was deducted from their accounts before they could even approach the bank. People are losing money  making payments  petroi pumps  Chandigarh city. Nearly  cases  skimming have been reported from petroi pumps  Chandigarh over the last six months.  these cases, miscreants cloned the cards and shopped  faraway places such  Mumbai and Hyderabad. The scam  worth lakhs. Source: The Times  India Credit card data hacked, crores stolenIn Aprii, 2o12,  gang  fraudsters were arrested  Hyderabad for skimming and cloning credit and debit cards using  complex modus operandi  hacking internationai  addresses, internet hawala, and spying and electronic data theft. The racket came  light  May 2o11 when people who visited two malls complained that huge amounts were withdrawn from their accounts. The gang succeeded  skimming off    crore INR from unsuspecting credit and debit card holders across the country from Hyderabad  Delhi, Kolkata  Bangalore. They used  point  sale electronic draft capture skimming machines, one ATM data skimming machine, ATM dome cameras, electronic magnetic writers, card printers and ATM pin pad skimmer machines and even placed spy cameras  ATMs which picked  the PINs  users. Source: The Indian Express Some recent cases  PwC The impact Banks are the worst hit when  comes  cyber frauds, particularly phishing scams.  per the RBI statistics, cyber crime  Indian banks accounted  around 527 million INR  2o12  compared  4o5 million INR  2o1o.  most  the cases relating  phishing attacks affecting banks,  was observed that phishing attacks not only cause reputationai damage and customer loss, but the banks have  bear the loss caused  customers  account  money siphoned off their bank accounts. Moreover, between October  December 2o12, the Indian credit card industry was targeted   series  credit card frauds involving skimming and cloning  card information leading  unauthorised transactions totalling around 3oo million INR. Top card issuing banks have seen unauthorised transactions totalling around 3oo million INR  far   internationai syndicate. Most banks believe that the card information  captured through retaii outlets that have been compromised. The cases range from fraudsters using captured information for making internationai online transactions  for transactions used  locai shops. Despite implementing various controls, credit card skimming continues  rise. Both the cardholder and the bank have  bear the brunt  the skimming fraud. When the fraudster makes unauthorised purchases with the cloned credit card, the credit card bili goes  the cardholder. When the credit card  swiped  the tampered skimmer device, the bank has  immediately make payment  the retaii outlet where the purchase was made. However,  the cardholder can prove that   she  not  fault,   the bank that has  bear the loss.  India, there   reversai  charges which means that even the money  restored  the cardholder;   she may stili have  bear  certain amount  loss. Besides this, the bank may have  incur further costs  terms  reissuing credit cards  these cardholders  even replacement  PoS machines. For instance,  the wake  recent skimming frauds,  leading bank has started replacing some PoS machines  merchant establishments.  Times  India, February 2o13 Financiai losses due  cyber crime  Indian banks accounted for close  527 million INR  2o12,   rise from 2o1o. Top card issuing banks have seen unauthorised transactions totalling around 3oo million INR  far   internationai syndicate. Cyber crimes  the rise  Cyber crime:  internai threat Most  the cyber threats originate from within the organisation and    growing concern across ali sectors. Actions   single insider can cause considerable damage   organisation including lost staff hours, negative publicity and financiai damage. The source  these threats could  employees, vendors, suppliers and partners but  most instances, cyber crimes are done  existing employees  the organisation. The fact that cyber crime   internai threat more than  externai one  not surprising since internai employees fraudsters have  deep insight into the organisation  functionalities, security measures and weaknesses  the internai controls that prevent fraud. PwC analysis has shown that though the likelihood  the attack from insiders may  very low  compared  externai threats, the magnitude  the impact   least  times more than that  the totai impact  externai attacker can cause. This  because  insider attack  committed  people who know the organisation  most sensitive secrets and vulnerabilities and have access  its systems. According  the PwC Economic Crime Survey 2o11 India,  organisations believed that the perpetrators were among their own staff and only  pointed  outsiders. Sixty per cent Indian organisations believe that internai employees are responsible for cyber attacks and economic crime.  PwC Nearly  key decision makers see employees   department  the biggest source  cyber threat.  was also observed that two-thirds  key decision makers  Indian organisations see insider threat  the most serious security threat facing them. The  department  the major source  cyber threat since  has weli- trained; educated and skilled staff who have access  the operating systems, databases,  business applications.  most cases, breaches  insiders are committed  individuals who are motivated  greed, selfishness,  antagonism towards the management leaking confidentiai information outside the organisation. Moreover, sociai media sites such  Facebook, Twitter, and Linkedin, etc. are being used  insiders  commit security breaches  knowingly  unknowingly posting  sharing sensitive information  the organisation. The impact Insider threat not only weakens the organisation from within  exposing its sensitive information but also poses  greater risk where  malicious outsider can take advantage   inadvertent insider leading  larger impact   organisation. This enables fraudsters  conduct activities that cannot  easily detected. Thus, the confidentiality and integrity being compromised  employees accessing the organisation  systems and data   primary concern. The internai threat cannot  completely avoided  insiders wili always pose threats  organisations through both malicious behaviour and unintentionai mistakes. These threats cannot  mitigated  technologicai solutions alone.  combination  technicai and administrative solutions  required  adequately address the rising tide  cyber crime from within the organisation.  The threat within  study  insider threat  DSCI  collaboration with PwC Cyber crimes  the rise  BYOD  the latest buzz word  the  industry. Company desktops are becoming  thing  the past,  organisations are increasingly allowing, and even encouraging employees  bring their domestic, consumer devices into the workplace and access corporate applications. This not only allows application availability  anytime, from anywhere, but can also help business slash procurement costs. The smartphone  tablet phenomenon  expected  fuei this trend, and wili drive uptake  the virtuai desktop infrastructure VDI, wireless networking and end-point security solutions  the corporate arena  the coming years but this  stili  distant dream for India. The BYOD trend  India    rise. Today,  leaders are abandoning their rigid outlook, lockstep approach  security and are adopting  new any device policy that supports popular mobile operating systems and enables user-owned devices  connect  corporate resources. BYOD: Benefits   security risks Nearly  Indian organisation have accepted the BYOD modei.  ISACA Information Systems Audit and Controi Association, 2o12  Risk Reward Barometer  CISCO Study, 2o12According   recent survey, India stood first among its globai counterparts  accepting BYOD with   Indian organisations allowing employees  bring their own devices. Companies have now started   beyond the risk-averse approach, have accepted the increasing BYOD trend and have moved beyond the basic BYOD connectivity  create  better workplace experience.  recent study report shows that BYOD  making progress within the corporate environment, with   employees using personai devices for work. Interestingly, India  one  the countries with some  the highest usage , second only  China with . The report also shows that   companies say they already allow BYOD  wili   within the next  months.    relatively recent trend where employees are allowed and even encouraged  bring personally-owned devices  workplace and use them  access company resources such  emaii, file servers, and databases.  PwCMost organisations, globally, are now enabling BYOD  the enterprise, with  staggering   respondents saying their organisations permit employee-owned devices  some way, shape  form  the workplace. This study also concluded that the average number  connected devices per knowledge worker  expected  reach .   2o14,  from  average  .   2o12. BYOD  perceived  most respondents    gateway  greater business benefits. Over three-fourths    leaders surveyed categorised BYOD  somewhat  extremely positive for their companies, even while seeing significant challenges for . 11The above reports show that the BYOD trend has arrived  India and  expected  rise  the near future. However, with the increasing use  mobile devices  work provide unexpected and unlimited opportunities for cyber criminals  attack mobile devices and wireless networks. Phones and mobile devices can  targeted  deniai  service attacks, and cyber criminals may also exploit mobile banking applications  carry out fraudulent activities. According   study conducted  PwC  2o13  BYOD, the weakest link  mobile device security  often the user and liability often originates  the top. -levei executives have exceptions  use personai devices, but these leaders pose the greatest risk because they have access  the company  most important information. There are numerous benefits  BYOD that are undeniably compelling but  the same time  opens the door  potentiai data breaches and leakage through mechanisms such  malware.  Study report published  British Telecommunications plc , 2o12  PwC study - Bring your own device: Agility through consistent delivery 2o1 Cyber crimes  the rise  Cloud computing:  new source  cyber threats The growing popularity  weli  dependency  cloud computing and virtualisation among companies could lead them  being possible targets  cyber criminals. Cloud computing,  one hand, offers significant benefits and cost savings but  the other hand, moves servers outside the traditionai security perimeter bringing  within easy reach  cyber criminals.  more data gets distributed around the internet via cloud, opportunities for data infection  theft are increasing. This has posing new complications  the security landscape  various Indian organisations . The rise  cloud computing has complicated the security landscape for organisations. Only  organisations have strategies for cloud computing indicating  lag  adoption rates.  Annuai information security survey 2o11, conducted  PwC  conjunction with CIO and CSO magazines  PwCOne  the top concerns with cloud computing  the issue  data privacy and security. Cloud computing represents  risk,   moves data and information into the hands   third- party provider for storage, processing,  support. Cloud computing builds  new layer  risk especially where sensitive data resides such  wide distribution  information across different jurisdictions, with different legai frameworks regarding data security and privacy and making  even more difficult  govern and regulate the information. Other challenges that cloud computing poses are around governance, tie-  the vendor, extension  the security modei  the provider, connectivity and reliance  third party SLA . Cloud computing security issues are largely unresolved  India, since  has  formai cyber security law  place covering this new technology. The lack  clear legislative safeguards has resulted  increased risks for companies adopting cloud computing. India  not yet ready for cloud computing  most    dependent  service providers and many organisations  not have mature  infrastructure  mitigate the risks posed  cloud computing.  India, technology adoption  moving faster than security implementation for new technologies. Only   the organisations  India have strategies for cloud computing. Thus, before going for cloud computing services organisations should  aware  vulnerabilities resulting from the use  cloud services and mindfui  the availability  cloud services  employees within  outside the organisation. Cloud computingRiskData privacy and security  stake  PwC  Globai State  Information Security Survey, 2o13 Cyber crimes  the rise  Cyber threats: Adopting proactive approach  tackle  Corporations  India wili need  adopt proactive steps  ensure that cyber threats  not result  erosion  business value. Organisations need  adopt  effective cyber crime strategy that balances preventive, detective and response measures. Overali   first step, organisations must get senior management involved  addressing high priority cyber issues,  weli  creating  sustainable programme and culture  remediate security issues   ongoing basis. Information security and the protection  customer information should  treated from  culturai perspective and senior management should  involved  the same way other industry safety regulations are treated  the company. Preventive measures: 1Providing proactive and ongoing education and training: Security policies, risks, etc. for customers and employees  weli  new technologies such  new devices, sociai media, software   service, cloud computing, advancement  -businesses, etc. wili help mitigate cyber incidents. These are  follows: Stakeholder workshops with industry SMEs and enhanced employee training are important  mitigate the risk  cyber crime within the organisations. Face--face training should  given  employees and   the most effective form when  comes  cyber crime awareness.  Cyber intelligence team: Setting   cyber intelligence team wili help companies  analyse situationai awareness and provide warnings  cyber threats  advance.  wili also assist companies  discovering, tracking and reporting  globai network events  interest that are identified  the team and  systems, utilising available cyber intelligence analysis data and methods. Companies need  carry out risk assessments: Organisations should prepare themselves for cyber threats,  focussing  understanding the risks their organisation faces, identify vulnerabilities  existing  infrastructure, prioritise the impact  those vulnerabilities based  the value  affected information and technology assets, and then identify, implement and continually assess the necessary controls and countermeasures required  mitigate those vulnerabilities. Organisations need  deploy comprehensive policies: Organisations need  cover network security, device security, physicalsecurity, data privacy andsecurity, BYOD strategy, cloudstrategy, sociai media security, etc. and align them with technicai and corporate culture changes, company  people processesand other key internai controls. These are  follows: 36o - degree situationai awareness Customer awarenessEmployee awareness Customers should  weli- informed about emerging cyber attacks through messages, mails and sociai media. Computer security Network security Physicai security Data security and controls Computer security Fuli disk encryption Encryption training Identity management  single sign  Network security Web application testing Network penetration testing Physicai security and controls GPS tracking devices  laptops Access controi changes Data security and controls Risk assessment Revised incident response procedures  PwC1As far  hacking and intrusion into computer systems  concerned organisations should preserve computers used  web administrators responsible for its website and regularly analyse the server logs  identify unauthorised logins and file transfers  the web server. Apart from these, organisations should adopt the following remediai measures: Respond  data breach allegations: Knowing the facts about the compromised website, the company wili    position  effectively respond  the data breach allegations. Server hardening: Web application development and improved server hardening technologies should  developed  help prevent  future computer intrusion. Enhanced information security policy: Implementation  enhanced information security policy regarding use  remote access technologies can help mitigate the risk  cyber attack. 1Companies need  create  cyber incident response team through which  incident spotted anywhere  the business cab  tracked, risk-assessed and escalated. They need  execute the following: Companies need  develop  customised internai incident response capability for the client  investigate complex cyber incidents. There   need  identify technicai and human resources  deploy  respond  both  internai  externai cyber crime incident. 2Organisations need  take  tougher and clearer stance  cyber crime the organisation should take legai action against cyber criminals andannounce what   doing about threats and incidents. 2Other security technologies wili help companies detect cyber crime and take  proper response measure  mitigate the risk. These are  follows: Intrusion detection system wili help organisations  inspect ali  the inbound and outbound network activities and identify suspicious patterns that indicate  attack that might compromise  system. Honeypot   device intended   compromised and  detect cyber crime companies can have the system probed, attacked and potentially exploited. Detective measures Response measures Respond  data Computer forensics Log analysis Respond  data security breach allegations Enhanced information security policy Improved server hardeningInvestigative capability Containment planIncident response capabilityCyber technicai skillsCyber response team Development   consistent approach wili help contain  advanced cyber threat. Employing technically skilled resources wili help  responding  future cyber intrusions. Cyber crimes  the rise  Conclusion Since rapid and dynamic changes  the technology space are throwing open new ways  doing business, organisations have  find out appropriate ways  tackle the new age sophisticated cyber crimes emerging  India. Increasing use  mobile and online banking, smart phones and personai devices, sociai media and cloud computing offer  wealth  attractive business solutions and opportunities  organisations but  the same time they can also pose  plethora  information security risks. With the increasing number and diversity  cyber crimes  India,    paramount importance for organisations  develop  response mechanism that enables them  understand and embrace the risks and opportunities  the cyber world   ongoing basis. Despite implementing various internai controls, cyber crimes continue  rise   increasing rate. Today, more and more organisations  ali sectors are seizing the opportunities created  the internet.  our PwC  view, organisations that incorporate cyber awareness and responsiveness  every employee, every decision and every interaction and are aware  the current and emerging cyber environment wili  the ones  gain competitive advantage  today  technology-driven environment.  PwCNotes Cyber crimes  the rise  About PwC India PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Satyavati Berera Tei:  124 33o 6o11 Emaii: satyavati. berera . pwc. com Sivarama Krishnan Tei:  124 33o 6o18 Emaii: sivarama. krishnan . pwc. com Siddharth Vishwanath Tei:   6669 1559 Emaii: siddharth. vishwanath . pwc. com Arup Sen Tei:   6669 1o78 Emaii: arup. sen . pwc. com Harpreet Singh Tei:  124 33o 6o12 Emaii: harpreet. singh . pwc. comKumar Dasgupta Tei:   6669 1341 Emaii: kumar. dasgupta . pwc. com Manpreet Singh Ahuja Tei:  124 33o 6o21 Emaii: manpreet. singh. ahuja . pwc. com Neeraj Gupta Tei:  124 33o 6o1o Emaii: . neeraj. gupta . pwc. com Sanjay Dhawan Tei:   4o79 7oo3 Emaii: sanjay. dhawan . pwc. com Tapan Ray Tei:   6669 12o4 Emaii: tapan. ray . pwc. com Nationai Practice Leader RAS www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  485 - Aprii 2o13 Invading privacy: Cyber crimes  the rise. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India