Title: pwc_connected-life-210213
Date Published: 2013-02-26 11:33:58+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_connected-life-210213.pdf
Word Count: 4139
Sentence Count: 315
Average Sentence Length: 19.75

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
mobile: 60
million: 59
could: 46
connected: 40
impact: 35
smart: 33
pwc: 31
services: 29
cities: 28
wili: 27
education: 26
life: 25
meducation: 24
students: 23
access: 23
every: 22
year: 22
mhealth: 20
interventions: 20
years: 18

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Connected Life The impact  the Connected Life over the next five years www. pwc.  Contents The impact  the Connected Life  mHealth: Saving lives and money  mEducation: Equipping people for  better future  mAutomotive: Making the roads safer and the world  little less hungry  Smart Cities: Tomorrow  cities today  This report was commissioned  the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programmemEducation Web-based course materiai should  decomposed into smali pages that can  easily read  smali mobile screens. When English vocabu - lary lessons were set  using the emaii and SMS functions  mobile phones, the students response was overwhelmingly positive. Thornton Houser mEducation The students  the future wili demand the learning support that  appropriate for their situation  context. Nothing more. Nothing less. And they want   the moment the need arises. Not sooner. Not later. Mobiles wili   key technology  provide that learning support.  Marcus Sprecht Professor  the Open Universiteit Nederland mHealth  think the mobile platform  incredibly important for the work  NGOs and development  generai.  allows   expand the reach  the programmes  have and create efficiencies within them. Erica Kochi Unicef  New York-based Innovation UnitmHealth The aim   give the patient  tooi  more effectively manage their chronic condition,  this wili minimise the number  times they visit their  and the number  times they become quite ili. The direct benefit  this  reduced visits  healthcare practitioners, reduced costs and fewer expensive drugs. . Victor Higgs , Applied NanodetectorsSmart Cities Smart meters wili revolutionise our relationship with energy, bringing people closer   and helping  think about    more intelligent way. This  vitai  achieving  1oo renewable future. Andy Blackett, Head  Metering, Good Energy,  Connected life  Mobile technology  redefining our lives and making  increasingly connected. From health and education  transportation and smarter cities, the proliferation  mobile communication and  connected life  now weli established and here  stay.  this report,  have attempted  give  snapshot  trends that are redefining our lives through mobile technology. The instances cited here only scratch the surface  the impact that mobile devices wili have  society over the next five years. Our findings indicate  exciting future for both developed and developing markets. For instance,  developed countries mobile interventions could help cut healthcare costs  4oo billion USD  2o17, help retain .  million students  the education system, save one  nine lives lost  road accidents, and reduce CO2 emissions   million tonnes annually. Similarly  developing markets, mobile interventions could help save over  million lives  Sub-Saharan Africa, provide education access  18o million students, save  million tonnes  food and encourage over  million commuters  start using public transport. The GSMA and  number  stakeholders around the world provided valuable inputs  this report.  number  secondary data sources were consulted  prepare this snapshot. Our aim   help generate  dialogue  this important topic and its exciting future. Policy makers within the government, civii society, corporations and individuals wili  doubt, find areas that they would like  explore further.  preparing this report, the immense benefits from Connected Life have inspired  and our team.  hope this report offers  similar glimpse  the reader. Shashank Tripathi India Leader, Strategy and ResearchMohammad Chowdhury India Leader, TelecomSmart Cities Just   predicted that Google would want  colonise every part  African life, the company has now launched  prepaid debit card which  Near Field Communications NFC enabled used for purchase  bus fare  Nairobi. TechMtaa. commAutomotive  are pleased  see that the implementation  eCali  becoming  reality  Europe. The closure  this eCali tour   consortium  industry partners   important step towards the   objective  have eCali deployed  ali cars  Europe  soon  possible. Juhani Jääskeläinen European Commission mAutomotive Connected containers and trucks equipped with M2M devices provide service providers and customers reliable and timely information such  the location, temperature, weight and humidity  shipping vessels  ensure asset integrity. When anything goes wrong,  alert message wili  sent, which helps increase regulatory compliance and ensure the quality  the items especially for perishable goods. Deutsche Telekom  PwC Over just  few decades, mobile communication has become one  the largest and most significant platforms, with six billion connections and transforming the way  communicate and access information, entertainment and the internet. Now,  new wave  connectivity   the horizon where everyone and everything around  that might benefit from  wireless connection wili,  fact, have one.  are about  see connected cars, buildings, medicai monitors, TVs, game consoles and  whole range  connected consumer electronics and household appliances. Many  these wili  connected wirelessly and intelligently, communicating and interacting with each other, thereby creating the connected life. Mobile networks play  pivotai role  the development  the connected life providing  scalable, standardised globai platform  support the growing demand for intelligent, secure connectivity. New connected wireless devices are set  surpass the number  mobile handsets over the coming decade and create significant new business opportunities for mobile operators, vendors and industry partners. Machina research estimates that  2o17, there wili  over  billion cellular connections. Ericsson estimates that  2o17,   world  population wili have  coverage, and that globai data traffic wili grow -fold  the end  2o18. This future demand wili only  satisfied  the continued roli-out  standardised mobile networks including the globai GSM LTE Mobile Broadband standard. Without continued investment and growth  mobile networks and the deployment  multiple connected devices, the socio- economic benefits  the connected life wili not  fulfilled. Beyond connectivity, mobile operators wili play  cruciai role  working together with  range  industry partners  health, automotive, education, smart cities and  range  verticai industries  accelerate the launch  valuable connected services, says Ana Tavares Lattibeaudiere, Head  Connected Living, GSMA. Mobile operators have the opportunity  generate value beyond basic connectivity through managed connectivity, stewardship services and platform innovation. Source: Ericsson Mobility Report, November 2o12The impact  the Connected LifeChapter  GSMA Connected Living programme Connected life  Chapter 2mHealth could save over  million lives  Sub-Saharan Africa over the next five years Simple mobile interventions for treatment compliance, medicai stock availability and healthcare worker adherence could potentially have  significant impact  saving lives  Sub-Saharan Africa. The increased adoption  mHealth solutions could help save lives across the entire healthcare delivery chain Many  these deadly conditions are relatively simple  treat, prevent  contain. SMS reminders  check for stock levels  the health centres have shown promising results  reducing stock-outs  key combination therapy medications for malaria,  and HIV. For HIV patients, simple weekly text reminders have consistently shown higher adherence amongst the patients.    largely curable disease but requires six months  diligent adherence  the medication regime. mHealth could help controi  mortalities  ensuring treatment compliance through simple SMS reminders. Delivering mobile-assisted awareness  pregnant mothers and traditionai birth attendants could reduce perinatai and maternai mortality  . Pilot programmes that track mobile-usage patterns have been very successfui  predicting disease outbreaks and  increasing malaria reporting adherence from   . Healthcare workers adherence  treatment guidelines and reporting procedures  another important area where mHealth  focussing  behaviourai changes.  ensure successfui mHealth interventions, mobile penetration needs  increase  that both the patients and the mHealth enablers are always connected. HIV AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and pregnancy-related conditions account for  million deaths  Africa every year  Sub-Saharan Africa, over .  million new-borns and 265, ooo mothers die every year. One  nine children die before the age  five and over   the world  estimated .  million malaria deaths occur here. Tuberculosis  accounts for over 23o, ooo fatalities and close  two-thirds  the world  HIV infected are  this region.  South Africa, one  five adults  HIV-positive and  2o1o, about 28o, ooo South Africans died  HIV AIDS.  fact,   estimated that over   ali deaths among South Africans are HIV AIDS deaths and that over the next five years,  million more lives wili  lost due  these diseases. The vast number  lives lost every year has driven the   declare that curbing these conditions would represent   the  Millennium Development Goals set  2ooo. Simple mobile interventions have shown tremendous potentiai  saving lives Mobile Alliance for Maternai Action MAMA, ensures that health workers and pregnant workers share health information through free SMS and calls for information  antenatai care, delivery services and child care. SIMpili,  medication management system that detects non-compliance  medication regimes, uses SMS reminders. Results showed  compliance for   triai and  cure rate. TxtAlert  South Africa supports HIV patients and their healthcare workers  Anti Retrovirai Therapy ART compliance. The success has been resounding with missed appointment rates declining from   . Since 2o11,   collaboration with Positive Innovation for the Next Generation PING, the Clinton Health Access Initiative CHAI, and mobile network provider MASCOM have successfully rolled out  mobile-enabled program that reduced government response times  malaria outbreaks from four weeks  three minutes. mHealth: Saving lives and money  PwC Where wili the lives  saved over the next five years? Connected life  OECD countries spend close   trillion USD  healthcare costs every year   average, OECD countries spend over , 2oo USD per capita  healthcare, which amounts  .   the combined OECD GDP. Healthcare spending has consistently outpaced GDP growth rate  most  these nations and  expected  place considerable pressure  public expenditure  the government contributes  excess    totai healthcare spend. Over 4oo, ooo German senior citizens cannot afford retirement homes and one  every  appointments are missed  the .  2o12 survey conducted  ComRes for the British Red Cross shows that personai care services for elderly Britons have been cut  frozen  two-thirds  locai councils since their last locai elections. The growing incidence  chronic lifestyle-related diseases are adding  this burden with the need for complex, ongoing and expensive treatment. Standard Poor  has already issued  warning  2o12, stating that the rising cost  healthcare  likely  damage the creditworthiness  advanced G2o countries within the next decade. mHealth solutions could improve patient quality  life and reduce treatment costs mHealth programmes are currently one  the most cost-effective ways  providing remote living assistance  aging and chronically ili patients. mHealth programmes provide faster response times, integrated record access and considerable ease  use  patients. Remote consultation and support  expected  address the growing chronic disease management issue  reducing the need for hospitalisation. Proactive mobile- based care for patients with sudden health incidents can reduce the number  primary and emergency visits  . Mobile technology can also  used for home monitoring, thereby reducing the need for face--face consultations. This wili not only help generate elderly care savings     but wili also improve patient quality  life. Healthcare providers can benefit via mobile access  electronic health records which can reduce the administrative burden  hospitals    . Simple SMS reminders for scheduling appointments can help address the problem  missed appointments.  order  achieve cost savings  this magnitude,   criticai that healthcare institutions  OECD countries not only adopt but also scale  the usage  mHealth services. mHealth could help cut healthcare costs  OECD countries  over 4oo billion USD  2o17 Providing healthcare services  consulting, monitoring, and providing access  patient records remotely through mobile technology wili help curtaii rising healthcare costs significantly.  PwC mHealth interventions are already being deployed  pilots and have shown significant cost savings Integrated care has been piloted  Valencia, Spain  deliver routine healthcare. Initiai findings suggest  differentiai  per capita patient cost management. The Connected Cardiac Care programme   home telemonitoring programme for heart patients and has resulted    reduction  rehospitalisation over the five- year period. Findings from the Eddy VNA study indicate that home telehealth interventions drop hospitalisation   and reduce emergency visits  . mHealth related trials  Nordic countries have shown    reduction  hospitai nights and rehospitalisation. Connected life  mEducation: Equipping people for  better future  developing regions, mEducation could provide 18o million children the opportunity  stay  schooi over the next five years mEducation could provide access  educationai resources, tools and materials anytime and anywhere  leveraging mobile devices  provide access  education.  the 61o million students enrolled  primary education, only  are expected  ever enroli  secondary education Literacy levels  most developing countries remain extremely low with   the world  illiterate  semiliterate population residing  these regions.  the  billion students expected  enroli  primary education over the next five years, over 22o million students are expected  drop out during the primary stage and  additionai 29o million primary graduates are expected  drop out before entering the secondary education system. Each year, only about  million students enter the secondary system against the nearly 1oo million who enroli  primary. mEducation  being used  increase affordable access  education for students  developing markets Access  education remains  criticai problem for reasons ranging from insufficient schooi coverage and low household incomes  limitations  the quality  locally available materiai and teachers. The widespread penetration  mobile networks offers  powerfui platform  improve access  relevant content. mEducation solutions already allow thousands  students  China, Bangladesh, South Korea and Indonesia  access course content through SMS and audio lessons.  mLearning student saves .   the cost spent  students taking the same training   traditionai classroom. Much  this  due  the elimination  the cost and inconvenience  travelling  attend courses. Inexpensive personai learning devices like the  USD tablet launched  India are further improving access  mEducation. Chapter   PwC 18o million potentiai dropouts would have access  education via mlearning and    million could  retained  the system The projected increase  mobile data penetration could provide education access  almost 18o million dropouts over the next five years  most mobile service providers now offer mEducation services.  estimate that with increasing penetration and awareness, around    these students could  retained  the education system and encouraged  join secondary education. This amounts  almost  million primary and  million secondary enrolments over the next five years  these regions. mEducation has had significant success despite being  very new innovation  the market Multiple pilot programmes and studies have been conducted across the developing markets  assess the impact  mEducation  access  education and student performance improvement:  mLearning service called MoMath, which was introduced  2oo9, has delivered   improvement  math grades  South Africa. Nokia has over  million subscribers and .  million active users for its Mobiledu product  China. Project ABC  Niger has shown substantiai gains  numeracy exam scores along with higher impact learning. The WorldReader project  Ghana has provided students across multiple grades with textbooks through mobiles. BYOT -learning  Nigeria has seen   improvement  students academic performance with  reduction  drop-out rates. Impact  mEducation every year 61o million students are enrolled across primary education Only 47o million students remain77 - 14o million drop out23  million can  retained  the system  this point  million graduate from last grade  primary every year Only  million students are enrolling  1st grade  secondary15 -  million drop out before enrolling  secondary85  million can  retained  the system  this point Interventions for improving customisation: engagement, performance and convenience Mobile phones  access tooi SMS audio lessons Low-priced -textbooks Connected life  Over  million students are expected  drop out  schooi over the next five years Developed countries are currently facing  considerable number  educationai challenges. One  four Europeans under the age   attains only the lowest levei  proficiency  reading. Across most developed countries,   students  not attain  upper secondary degree and nearly   the schooi drop-outs are between Grade   Grade . This results   substantiai employment disadvantage for these dropouts  they often lack the most basic job skills. For example,  the , despite the economic crisis  2o11, there were over  million unfilled job vacancies due  the lack  skilled labour. Large-scale rollouts  mobile learning through mEducation initiatives are already taking place  developed countries There   lot  work being done towards improving student engagement and customising education for each learner  improve retention. mEducation simplifies access  content and experts, and also overcomes the traditionai constraints  time and location.  the major mobile application app, eBook and audiobook stores,  least    titles are mobile learning apps and there are now major digitisation efforts taking place  the  and  schooi systems. Korea and Denmark are moving  provide mobile education access  ali students  2o15, and Turkey  committed  rolling out over  million tablets  2o16. Over .  million students   dropouts could  retained across Grades    over the next five years Over  million potentiai dropouts wili have access  mEducation thanks  the growing adoption  mobile data services  developed markets. Considering this ubiquitous access and the success   number  mobile learning programmes,  anticipate that around    these dropouts could  otherwise retained  the system and encouraged  graduate from secondary education. This would amount  around .  million more skilled and job-ready secondary graduates  developed nations over the next five years. mEducation could help retain .  million students  the education system across developed nations  2o17 mEducation wili enable educators  personalise education solutions for individuai learners  improve student engagement.  PwC Interventions for improving customisation: engagement, performance and convenience Mobile phones, tablets and laptops  access toolSoftware and interactive mediaeBooks and audio lessons for convenience mEducation has various effective performance improvement and engagement tools Multiple studies have been conducted across the developed market  assess the impact  mEducation  student performance and retention: Apple  Speciai Education section  the iTunes App Store aims  reach out  over  million schooi children with cognitive  physicai impairments  the  alone. Pearson has partnered with various colleges across the   provide access  courses and learning materials.  risk secondary students  the  state  Tennessee have succeeded  raising graduation rate  , through mEducation plans. MoLeNet  the , suggest that nationai -year retention rates wili improve   using mEducation. Project -Nect  the  has increased student proficiency rates    mLearning. Connected life  mAutomotive: Making the roads safer and the world  little less hungryFleet telematics could prevent food wastage during transport and hence feed  population the size  Kenya every year  2o17 Fleet telematics  the combination  mobile technology and informatics that enables monitoring and management  logistics services. Developing nations waste over .  billion tonnes  food every year  the developing world, over  million deaths occur every year due  malnourishment- related conditions. The primary reason for this food scarcity  not the lack  production  these regions, but the wastage  food. Over   the nearly .  billion tonnes  food produced  the developing world  wasted every year. Most  this wastage  the result  poor infrastructure and food management. Transport and storage-related wastage alone contributes  over 24o million tonnes  these regions. This  the equivalent  the amount  food that can feed nearly 4oo million people every year. mAutomotive services are already making  impact  improving fleet performance  developing markets  markets such  Asia and Africa, fleet telematics  currently being employed   variety  applications  improve fleet management and goods tracking, especially  food transport and cold transport supply chain. The development  fleet telematics  dependent  the growth  the breadth and depth  globai mobile networks,  weli  the implementation  complementary -vehicle connected solutions. Current mainstream applications include the following: Route and travei time optimisation Idling and stoppage time reduction Checking and managing storage temperature Monitoring vehicle attachments  vehicle doors Observing driver behaviour and performance mAutomotive solutions could prevent enough wastage  feed over  million people  year  estimate that  the potentiai benefits  fleet telematics gain traction amongst the fleet operators and owners, coupled with basic awareness programs, food wastage during transport and storage can  reduced   , the equivalent   million tonnes  year. This much food  sufficient  feed over  million people,  2ooo-calorie diet, every year.  truck using vehicle telematics  expected  save the equivalent   tonne  food  month through increased efficiencies and performance improvements that can  felt across the board. Chapter   PwC The key  the impact  fleet telematics lies  wide- ranging performance benefits Acknowledging the benefits  fleet telematics,  wide range  companies from across the world offer fleet telematics and related services  logistics operators and owners. The developing markets demand  now being actively serviced through low-price telematics solutions costing under 8oo USD per vehicle. This service  proving   very attractive  major food cooperatives  India, who are now requesting that fleet operators provide them with telematics-enabled tracking. Some weli-documented performance related improvements are  listed below: Journey time reduction    Maintenance cost reduction    Fuei cost reduction    Average reduction  billing cycles    weeks Reduction  idling and stoppage time   . Consumption Retaii and distributionHandling and storage Production Processing and packag ing  million tonnes  food could  saved every year which can feed: the entire population  Kenya two-thirds  the  ali  Canada12     Connected life     lives lost  road accidents could  saved  mobile-enabled -car emergency cali services -car emergency cali services could broadcast life-saving information such  the location  the accident  the nearest emergency-service provider. Over , ooo people die every year from road accidents across OECD regions Deaths from road accidents feature  one  the top causes for fatalities  OECD countries. Road accident related deaths are primarily caused due  cardiac failure, respiratory failure  massive bleeding conditions. Half  these victims die within the first hour.  the moments following  major accident, every minute becomes criticai  saving the victims life and therefore the sooner that medically trained help arrives, the higher the chances are for survivai. This becomes particularly important  the case  cardiac failures where every minute  delay reduces the chances  survivai  around . mAutomotive services could reduce emergency response time    rurai areas and   urban centres While emergency cali services cannot reduce the number  road accidents, they help  dramatically reduce the time required  get trained help   accident scene. Once activated after  accident, these applications establish  voice and  data connection directly with the nearest emergency service provider and provide details  the accident, such  the time and location via the use  GPS  triangulation based  the nearest mobile towers. Most OECD-based studies indicate that emergency response times could  reduced    through emergency cali services  they eliminate the need for the victim  passers-  actually make the cali. Over , ooo lives could  saved over the next five years through emergency cali services With the  mandating such services, current adoption patterns  other OECD regions and the growing industry awareness around the potentiai benefits  this simple intervention, cars with these embedded services wili make   significant portion  new car sales. Most major studies  date support the position that  estimated   accident-related fatalities could  reduced through -cali services every year. This compelling evidence has prompted the European Commission  consider legislation that would make  mandatory for ali new cars   fitted with the emergency calling system  2o15. Even  North America,  similar service  now available from Generai Motors via their OnStar services.  PwC Multiple globai studies agree that emergency cali services could increase the number  lives saved  almost  Multiple studies sponsored  governments  weli  large corporations confirm the advantages  emergency cali services  developed markets: According  the eSafety, and eMerge studies and TRACE studies there could   .  reduction  fatalities due  road accidents through the use  such services. The STORM study shows that the emergency calling service could reduce response times from .  minutes  .  minutes  rurai areas and from  minutes   minutes  urban centres. Typicai response time  urban centres Typicai response time  rurai areas Connected life  Smart Cities: Tomorrow  cities today Smart commute interventions could give back commuters  whole  week  worth  time every year Smart commute interventions such  mobile-based payments, live and dynamic transit scheduling, and commute-time updates would encourage  large number  people  use public transport. Mobile interventions could encourage over  million people  adopt public transport over the next five years Consensus studies indicate that  heavily congested areas,   reduction  vehicles  the road typically reduces commute times   .  weli-networked transit infrastructure involving the ability  track commuters, provide them with --date information  plan their commutes and eliminate friction generated through transaction delays could encourage    commuters  opt for public transit.  estimate that such  large movement towards public transit could reduce commute times   much   . While mobile penetration  these cities have typically reached near saturation, the key  success lies   concerted effort  the various stakeholders with locai authorities being the primary enabler. Typicai commute times  the largest developing market cities are  excess   minutes  day The  largest emerging market cities are home  over 25o million people.  these cities, over 16o million spend  average   minutes  day commuting  work and back.  2o11, IBM published the results  its annuai globai commuter pain survey, which indicated that traffic  one  the largest challenges being faced  these cities.  the  cities surveyed, the bottom eight were ali from the developing world.  overwhelming majority  respondents  excess   stated that traffic negatively impacted their stress levels, physicai health and productivity. The totai time that  typically spent commuting  these cities adds   more than three years  one  lifetime. Mobile-based commute interventions could increase adoption  public transport Commute interventions using mobile technologies have the potentiai  improve the quality  public transport  these cities. Dynamic scheduling  buses based  commuter movement and density could drastically reduce the movement  empty buses clogging  traffic during peak hours. Mobile payments could eliminate queue- waiting times, and provision  reai-time updates and schedules could encourage more commuters  use public transport. NFC technology could eliminate the need for speciai equipment  accept payments from  wide range  options such  phones  even smart cards. Chapter   PwC Mobile technologies are expected  play  increasingly important role  public transport adoption and traffic management  2o12 study  MIT, Centrai South University  China, the University  California  Berkeley and the Austrian Institute  Technology using data from drivers celi phones states that the strategic elimination  only   drivers from select neighborhoods during rush hour would reduce travei times within  city   much  . Only last month, China has pledged  boost urban transport and  encouraging mobile payment systems  increase ridership  ali its major cities. Indian railways has launched  ticket-booking app for mobile phones and has authorised the use  SMS  the ticket itself. There are severai test projects  roli similar technology out for metro and bus services. Google has recently entered the Kenyan market with its NFC enabled beba travei card that could  swiped against smartphones. What  the value  the time saved commuting? Three years  collegeMaster any skili  your choice18o hours Every year Over  lifetime Over  hundred footbali games  month  worth  work Connected life   major cities across the developed world, smart metering could reduce carbon emissions offset  over .  billion trees Smart meters record the consumption  electricity  regular intervals and use mobile networks  transmit that information  least daily for monitoring and billing purposes.  would take the equivalent   billion trees  offset the amount  carbon emissions from the top  OECD cities Cities are centres  commerce, trade and industry around the world, resulting  large population clusters.  fact over   the population  the major OECD countries reside  urban centers and while cities may  considered the lands  opportunity, they are also the most taxing  the environment. Cities contribute  over   direct and indirect carbon emissions, with households alone contributing  around . Today, the  largest cities  the OECD region emit over 735 million tonnes  CO2 every year. Domestic smart meters have the potentiai  reduce the carbon footprint  households Both people and the environment could benefit from smart meter technology. Unlike more conventionai home energy monitors, smart meters gather data for remote reporting  energy, water  gas usage. They primarily differ from traditionai meters  their ability  enable two-way communications between  meter and its service provider. Furthermore, the additionai benefits  remote cut-off and start- that could prevent idle-time energy wastage, especially during cold months and time  use pricing, makes smart meters  good investment for people who  not consume much power during peak hours.  developed markets, over 1oo million smart meters wili  installed  the next five years Smart metering  the developed world  really beginning  take off.  the Australian state  Victoria, smart meters are being rolled  over .  million electricity customers and  Canada,  million households already use smart meters.  similar increase could  seen  the , where smart meter adoption has gone from   over ,  only three years   totai   million smart meters and  estimated additionai  million wili  installed  2o15.  Europe, the  plans  have smart meters  ali homes  2o2o and  further  more European countries aim   1oo smart meter compliant  2o19.   anticipated that  2o17, the adoption  smart meters  the top  OECD cities, wili help reduce household energy consumption  .   the equivalent   million tonnes  CO2.  PwC Smart meters can relieve stress  the grid and reduce consumer electricity bills considerably Smart meters are now considered   very usefui utilities for reducing energy consumption. Various studies have been conducted and they support the need for smart meters: The 2oo8 GridWise triai  the  concluded that smart meters could reduce utility bills   . The Galvin Electricity Initiative, which has been monitoring smart meter-related cost savings across the , indicates that dynamic pricing  some instances could  around   cheaper than retaii pricing  energy.  pilot program  the  state  Oklahoma, was recently funded  the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and  -year, .  USD million energy savings performance contract.  million tonnes  CO2 .  billion trees5ooo- 6ooo    forests5o- times Barcelona Connected life  Methodology Initiai shortlisting  region-specific interventions and their key areas  impact This research report aims  capture the socioeconomic impact   connected life for developed and developing markets.  part  our research,  looked  the four services  the Connected Living program: mHealth, mEducation, mAutomotive and Smart Cities.  shortlisted  series  potentiai region-specific interventions based  the following filters: Address key burning needs that affect    large scale Have  measurable impact  2o17 Have some degree  adoption  the existing market Based  our filtering criteria,  arrived  four interventions for developed markets and four more interventions for developing markets. Capturing data and developing impact models  created  master pooi  data  capture the relevant data points  country  the region wherever applicable from standard globai knowledge sources . . WHO,  and World Bank.  then identified  series  case studies, research outcomes, and pilot programs that have been able  arrive  quantifiable conclusions  the impact  each intervention. Based  the impact evidence was organised  provide regionai impact data sets and country clusters with similar impact levels based  current conditions and mobile penetration levels. These clusters and the impact  these interventions were consolidated  arrive  the first set  conclusions. These conclusions were then tested  altering the various impact metrics  arrive  optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. Another series  test conducted involved the introduction  error variables  determine the sensitivity  these models. Arriving  projections The models have been designed such that the impact  each intervention  estimated  existing projections  impact areas. For instance,  case  our mHealth developed markets analysis,  used the OECD Health Indicator report  the basis for analysing our impact  projected spends. Based  this impact,  have arrived  our conclusion for each  the eight topics  research. Approach Master data Need for mobile interventionRegion analysis Impact evidence Scenario analysis Output Identifying relevant data pointsData analysis  establish realityClustering within developed and developingFinalise case studies and impacts deliveredParameters varied  identify various scenariosExample: Public sources  data like World Bank, UNESCO, OECD database etc. were used. Places where possible mobile interventions can create  positive impact were identified. Study specific regions  both developed and developing markets. Consolidate multiple regions  applicable. Identify relevant case studies and pilot programs utilising mobile technologies for each relevant topic. Develop impact parameters based  case studies and pilots. Develop the impact modei and identify impact  outcomes. One  nine lives lost  road accidents could  saved  mobile-enabled -car emergency services. Methodology  identify socioeconomic impact for each connected life service covered  PwC References mHealth OECD Report: Health   Glance 2o11, OECD Indicators 2o11 BCG Telenor: The Socio Economic Impact  Mobile Health Apr 2o12 GSMA-McKinsey: mHealth:  new vision for healthcare Connected Cardio Care: http: www. connected-health. org programs cardiac-care center-for-connected-health-initiatives connected-cardiac-care. aspx Robert  Litan: Vitai signs via broadband: Remote health monitoring transmits savings, enhances lives 2oo8 IRD: mHealth  Improve  Care May 2o12 GlaxoSmithKline: Mobile for Malaria The Cochrane Collaboration: Mobile phone text messaging for promoting adherence  antiretrovirai therapy  patients with HIV infection 2o12 Actevis Consulting Group: Scaling  Mobile health Dec 2o11 mAutomotive SMART Study: Impact assessment  the introduction  the eCali service  ali new type-approved vehicles  Europe, including liability legai issues 2oo8 eIMPACT: Socio-economic impact assessment  stand-alone and -operative intelligent vehicle safety systems IVSS  Europe 2oo8 SEISS Study: Exploratory study  the potentiai socio-economic impact  the introduction  intelligent safety systems  road vehicles Food and Agriculture Organization  the United Nations UNFAO 2oo6- 2o11 UNFAO: Globai food losses and food waste 2o11: http: www. fao. org docrep o14 mbo6oe mbo6oeoo. pdf World Bank: Missing food: The Case  Postharvest Grain Losses  Sub-Saharan Africa 2o11 http: siteresources. worldbank. org INTARD Resources MissingFoods1o_web. pdf Vodafone: Connected Agriculture 2o11 http: www. vodafone. com content dam vodafone about sustainability 2o11 pdf connected_agriculture. pdf Souther Agriculturai Growth Corridor  Tanzania SAGCOT - http: www. sagcot. com Packaging and Films Association - Frequently Asked Questions - http: www. pafa. org.  attachments article  Sustainable 2oPlastic 2opackaging 2oLeaflet 2o8pp. pdf http: www. Foodlogistics. com mEducation UNESCO education indicators: 2oo6- Ambient Insight: The Worldwide Market for Mobile Learning Products and Services: 2o1o-2o15 Forecast and Analysis McKinsey and GSMA: Transforming learning through mEducation 2o1o IBM: Smarter Education Building the foundations  economic success 2o12 GSMA: Mobile education landscape report 2o11 GSMA: mLearning:  platform for educationai opportunities  the base  the pyramid 2o1o UNESCO Nokia: Turning  mobile learning Illustrative initiatives and policy implications 2o12 Smart Cities Pike Research: Smart meters  Europe 2o12 Directive 2oo9    the European Parliament and  the Councii concerning common rules for the internai market  electricity 2oo9 IMS Research: The world market for smart meters 2o1o Department  Energy and Climate Change: Smarter grids: The opportunity 2oo9 IBM Report:  vision for smarter cities 2oo9 CNET: GridWise triai finds smart grids cut electricity bills 2oo8 http: news. cnet. com 83o1-11128_3-9847236-. htmi Seimens Green City Indes 2o12 - http: www. siemens. com entry   greencityindex. htm New Cities Foundation: Connected commuting 2o12 http: www. newcitiesfoundation. org -content uploads New-Cities- Foundation-Connected-Commuting-Fuli-Report. pdf United Nations Statistics Division: Demographic and Sociai Statistics Schechtner, González, Wang, Bayen and Hunter, Congestion can  alleviated throughout  metropolitan area  altering the trips  drivers  specific neighborhood Scientific Reports December, 2o12 Contacts Shashank Tripathi India Leader - Strategy and Research Phone:  98196 789oo Emaii: shashank. tripathi . pwc. comMohammad Chowdhury India Leader - Telecom Phone:  9167665544 Emaii: mohammad. chowdhury . pwc. com David Wijeratne Associate Director - Strategy and Research Phone:  9818966775 Emaii: david. wijeratne . pwc. comMadhu Varshitt  Principai Consultant - Strategy and Research Phone:  9769721412 Emaii: madhu. varshitt.  . pwc. com Mayank Sankar Nayak Consultant Telecom Phone:  9867464488 Emaii: mayank. . nayak . pwc. comRuchika Agrawai Consultant Strategy and Research Phone:  916766755o Emaii: ruchika. agrawai . pwc. comAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  This publication has been prepared for generai guidance  matters  interest only, and does not constitute professionai advice. You should not act upon the information contained  this publication without obtaining specific professionai advice.  representation  warranty express  implied  given   the accuracy  completeness  the information contained  this publication, and,  the extent permitted  law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept  liability, and disclaim ali responsibility, for the consequences  you  anyone else acting,  refraining  act,  reliance  the information contained  this publication  for any decision based  . Without prior permission  PwCPL, this publication may not  quoted  whole   part  otherwise referred   any documents. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  459- February 2o13 Connected life. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India