Title: pwc_india-manufacturing-barometer
Date Published: 2013-07-24 14:33:39+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_india-manufacturing-barometer.pdf
Word Count: 2512
Sentence Count: 198
Average Sentence Length: 20.11

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
manufacturing: 66
india: 55
growth: 54
companies: 48
sector: 26
months: 26
barometer: 24
business: 23
survey: 23
new: 23
pwc: 22
next: 20
july: 18
source: 18
economy: 17
cost: 16
customer: 15
gdp: 13
demand: 13
economic: 12

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

India Manufacturing Barometer Taking the pulse www. pwc.  India Manufacturing Barometer, July 2o13 Economic climate  Sector dashboard  Speed breakers  Emerging trends p1o Key comparisons: India and the  p12 Speciai focus customer expectations p14  summary p15 Key indicators for the business outlook p16 Survey demographics and research methodology p17 While being cautiously optimistic, the sector  using this period  comparatively sluggish activity  realign the business models and prepare for the future PwC2Foreword The Indian manufacturing sector  facing challenging times.  has become imperative for India  breathe life and growth into its manufacturing sector. The vision  have the sector contribute    GDP  criticai  achieve    needed  increase our GDP growth and provide jobs- both integrai  the inclusive growth  would like  see. The government has  make every effort  improve the investment environment enabling manufacturing and infrastructure projects   implemented  the shortest possible time.  need the competitiveness  our industry    the core  policy  that  can supply the domestic market and export  the world. The survey conducted  FICCI and PwC, Manufacturing Barometer has brought out key challenges facing the sector  the current macro-economic scenario and also the expectations  manufacturers for the next ten  twelve months.  hope this report wili help  addressing and prioritising the issues concerning manufacturing  the short term  weli  long term.  compliment PwC India and the team  FICCI for collaborating for the Indian version  Manufacturing Barometer Report. Naina Lai Kidwai President, FICCI India Manufacturing Barometer3Preface  gives  immense pleasure  initiate our manufacturing sector journey with FICCI with our first edition  the India Manufacturing Barometer,  report  survey the confidence and growth outlook  CXOs across the manufacturing sector. The country  status   developing economy, accompanied   increasing need  generate employment opportunities for its youth, has highlighted its potentiai   manufacturing hub. Government recognition  the criticality  the manufacturing sector has led  the announcement  the Nationai Manufacturing Policy NMP, setting out  bold vision for the sector achieving  growth rate     over the medium term.  FY13, India  manufacturing sector grew slower than the rest  the economy, with GDP growth itself having slowed. With this background,  have attempted  profile and analyse the views  organisations  the sector,  economic and market conditions, industry opportunities and challenges, business performance and prospects. The India Manufacturing Barometer finds that CXOs are largely concerned with increasing cost pressures especially interest rates, declining domestic demand, foreign exchange volatility and politicai uncertainty. However, contrasted with the many prophets  gloom, majority  the CXOs are cautiously optimistic about future growth prospects both for their segment  weli  for their company. Majority  the companies surveyed had strategies  place  negotiate the various threats  growth. These strategies are not merely focused  cost reductions and efficiencies and reigning  capex but are aimed  building competitive advantage beyond costs. The most common themes were new product  service introductions, research and development, facilities expansion and, most importantly, understanding the changing customer preferences and demands and fostering longer term profitable relationships with customers.  sincere thanks  the participating CXOs across various segments  the manufacturing sector for their valuable time and for sharing their thoughts and strategies with .  hope you find this survey report insightfui and usefui and welcome any suggestions you may have. Bimai Tanna Leader, Industriai Products PwC India PwC4Economic climateThe performance  manufacturing,  most developed and emerging nations,   bellwether  the health  their respective economies. Due  interwoven linkages between the sector and the rest  the economy,  started this survey  gauging the environment that the domestic and globai economies are providing  Indian manufacturing. Globai economy yet  bounce back Concerns regarding the stability  some  the Eurozone economies, sluggish growth  the  and the slowdown  key emerging economies have affected the Indian manufacturing sector  view  the globai economy. Given this background,  majority  companies participating  our survey saw the world economy  being   decline. Looking forward over the next  months, the outlook does not seem  improve much, with more companies describing   uncertain  mildly pessimistic. GDP growth rate: The globai economy could see  mild recovery Mostly uncertain  pessimistic about world economic growth Today Significant growth  Moderate growth   noticeable change  Moderate decline  Significant decline  Next  months Very optimistic  Somewhat optimistic  Uncertain  Somewhat pessimistic  Very pessimistic  Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13Source: World Economic Outlook, the IMF, PwC analysis Calendar year forecastWorld 2o13 2o14 Emerging and developing economies 2o13 2o14 Advanced economies 2o13 2o14 China 2o13 2o14 .  .  .  .  .  .   .  India 2o13 2o14 .  .  India Manufacturing Barometer5India expected  turn the corner The release  the annuai GDP figures for 2o12- threw few surprises, with GDP growth  its lowest   decade   --. With this growth following figures  around   FY1o and FY112,   probably not surprising that views  the economy tended towards  growth  moderate decline. The outlook for the economy , however, relatively brighter for the next  months.  FY14,   companies surveyed expect the economy  exceed the  growth rate  last year, with  median growth estimate, among companies interviewed  .  for FY14. This estimate matches reasonably weli with the Asian Development Bank  and IMF estimates for GDP growth  CY13, which range between .  and . , though   lower than the government  own estimates  .   FY14.  the whole, however, uncertainty seems   the theme for the majority  companies, with some believing that impending elections may delay government decisions and limit growth  the current fiscai year.  The Centrai Statistics Office CSO, Ministry  Statistics and Programme Implementation  The Planning Commission  India  Asian Development Outlook 2o13, Asian Development BankMore optimistic about the future GDP growth rate  India Today Significant growth  Moderate growth   noticeable change  Moderate decline  Significant decline  Growth expectation  FY14 Above   Less than   Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13 Source: Economic Advisory Councii  the Prime Minister, Asian Development Bank ADB and the IMF. GDP growth rate: Indian economy might have bottomed out PwC6Sector dashboardThe manufacturing sector has been moving   slower pace than the overali economy for some time now.   result, the sector  contribution  GDP has declined marginally from .   .   the five years tili March 2o13. Growth rate  manufacturing reduced from .   2o1o-  .   2o11- and   2o12-.  FY13, only .   the country  growth was generated  manufacturing  opposed   contributed  services.  The sector  not  its strongest  the moment, but are the manufacturing companies  lockstep with rest  the economy? Companies are positive Estimates for industry revenue growth  not appear   very optimistic, with the mean estimate being , and nearly one  five companies expecting their segment  show negative growth over the next  months.  the other hand, companies expect their own revenues  grow   faster pace  FY14, with  mean estimate  over .  fact, one  five companies expected revenue growth  exceed   FY14. Manufacturing  share  the economy has been declining Source: The Planning Commission  India, PwC analysisIndia  manufaturing GDP Trillion INR Manufacturing  share  GDP . 716 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .  .  2oo6- 2oo7- 2oo8- 2oo9- 2o1o- 2o11- 2o12- What  the estimate  your sector  likely revenue growth rate  FY14? Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o132    - - - - -       expect their sector growth   less  equai    What  the estimated revenue growth rate for your business  FY14? Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o138      - - - - - -     believe that revenue growth wili   least   The Centrai Statistics Office, Ministry  Statistics and Programme Implementation India Manufacturing Barometer7Margin pressures have not dented their optimism The globai economy has been volatile, adversely impacting business and consumer sentiments. Slow market demand generally results  inventory accumulation and sales slowdown, reflecting the trend depicted  manufacturing companies. Finished inventories   percentage  sales have gone  for   the respondents  the past six months. Faced with uncertainty regarding demand  the market,   also likely that the bargaining capacity  the manufacturers has reduced. For half  the companies surveyed, gross margins declined over the past six months. Typically, this was due   combination  constrained pricing power and cost pressures. For   the companies, costs increased over the past six months, yet only  were able  increase prices. Significantly, most organisations believe the market has bottomed out, and the next few months wili  better. Over half  the respondents believe that margins wili improve over the next six months, while another  expect them  remain steady. Margins Increase Stayed the same Decrease5o   Cost change Increase Stayed the same Decrease    Price change Stayed the same Down39   Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13What happened  costs, prices and margins  the past six months? Finished inventories   percentage  sales  the past six months Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o1343 Up22 Down35 About the same Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13Expectations  margins over the next  months are optimistic  Increase8 Decrease38 Remain the same PwC8Speed breakersMajor barriers  growth over the next  months are expected  mirror those that have constrained business activity over the last few quarters. Higher interest rates Not surprisingly,   respondents felt that higher interest rates would  the key factor limiting growth over the next  months. High interest rates not only impact consumer borrowing, but also increase the cost  capitai for corporations, thus impacting new investments. This has  cascading effect  demand and economic growth. The RBI started easing the rates from the second half  last year. However, rates are stili trending above the -year averages, and with pressure  the exchange rate may not see  downward momemt  near term.  Lack  domestic demand Lack  demand  the domestic economy  identified   key concern    the respondents. With private finai consumption having grown   and gross fixed capitai formation grown  . , demand for industriai products has been sluggish. Companies surveyed anticipate that this wili continue    limiting factor for growth  FY14  weli. Barriers  business growth over the next  months Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13 Source: The Reserve Bank  IndiaInterest rates are trending above the -year averages  The Reserve Bank  India56             Higher interest rates Lack  domestic demand Oii energy prices Pressure for increased wages Legislative  regulatory pressures Decreasing profitability Unavailability high price  raw materials Competition from foreign markets Foreign exchange volatility Taxation policies Capitai constraints Lack  professionai workers  managers Lack  production  service workers India Manufacturing Barometer9Other concerns Pressure  wages was  concern for more than one  three companies. This may not surprising  companies believe that   environment  high inflation, wage increases are imperative.  addition, taxation policies and legislative  regulatory pressures are perceived   barrier  growth  severai companies. Restrictive labour laws and  complex tax and duty regime have been exacerbated  delays  approvai and implementation  government and infrastructure projects. Delays  government spending and procurement have  cascading impact  industriai demand. The World Bank Group   recent study drew attention  this6. Thirty-two per cent  companies are concerned about unavailability  raw materials and  are about high energy prices.  the last financiai year, fuei and power inflation have seen  graduai moderation, but are yet trending   elevated levei, range- bound between    . Tedious regulations, legislations and taxation Source: The World Bank Group132 India  place  ease  doing business rankings among  totai  185 countries, where rank   the easiest With  rank  India remains one  the most difficult places  get  construction permit With  rank  India  also the most difficult place  enforce  contract  Doing Business 2o13, Smarter Regulations for Smali and Medium-Size Enterprises, The World Bank Group The World Bank and the Internationai Finance Corporation  Office  Economic Advisor, Ministry  Commerce and Industry, Government  India PwC1oEmerging trendsThe importance  manufacturing  the overali weli being  the economy  more than evident and the government has paved  mission for the sector. Notwithstanding the plans  the government, companies are already taking measures  try and drive growth  their individuai businesses. Restraining expenditure, not value Customer growth targets for companies are also strongly guided  tightly defined investment parameters. Manufacturing companies are carefui about adding capacity but are not   mood  cut manpower. Expenditure: Tread carefully Faced with rising costs and weak demand, investments could have taken  back seat. Half the companies surveyed are not planning major new investments and  are uncertain about .  job cuts yet However,  India, while companies have stalled their plans  capacity additions and investments, they have also been carefui not  cut value  the process. For instance,   the respondents were planning  retain their existing staffing levels, while  further  expected  increase headcount over the next  months. Looking forward  expand Companies are ready  explore their options beyond nationai borders and capture  increasing share  the globai pie. Markets without borders The trend  evident  the responses. Only   the totai interviewed companies want  reduction  activity  selected markets abroad  the next  months. For the balance, resolution  increase their globai footprint seems more aggressive for the future, compared  the last six months. Over the next  months,  third  companies surveyed expect internationai sales  comprise over   their revenues, with the median expectation being . Manufacturers are cautious about new investments but cost controi has not stopped job creation  are refraining from planning any major new investments   India plan  add   the most keep their fuli-time equivalent employees same Manufacturers remain optimistic about expansion  the next  months  Expect more than   revenues from internationai sales  Expand  new markets abroad  Start  least one new strategic alliance    Plan  set   new manufacturing, production  distribution facility abroad Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13 India Manufacturing Barometer11Target business activities While  are expecting  expand  new markets abroad,  believe that they wili start  least one new strategic alliance  joint venture  the next  months. Nearly, two among five companies also plan  set   new manufacturing, production  distribution facility abroad. Building competitive advantage beyond cost Competitive advantages need   sustainable for Indian manufacturing  maintain its attractiveness, since they face competition not only from other domestic players, but also players  other countries. Strategically allocating limited resources Manufacturers may have started working towards these goals already.  say this since despite the objective  cost-effectiveness and capped expenditures, they are strategically planning  allocate their limited expenses  the next  months. They have chosen  spend  new product  service introductions, research and development and facilities expansion.   aimed  improving product portfolio and mix  increase margins. The focus area  their investment shows that they are resolute about climbing  the value ladder  sustain their advantage and not solely rely  providing low costs. Sector-specific investments  closer look  the data reveals that sectors such  auto ancillary were actively pursuing ali three areas  expenditure. Metai companies were mostly looking forward  expanding facilities and introducing new products and services.  majority  the building and construction materials sector want  spend only  facilities expansion, capitals goods segment  new products and services and chemicals and engineering companies   . Size specific optimism When  segregated the companies surveyed  the revenues  their respective divisions  SBUs,  found that the intensity with which they expanded across the border,  the past six months, varied with size. The participating companies with revenues   billion INR  above  FY12 were more inclined  expand than those with revenues below that levei. However, the limited, but carefully selected investments are aimed  climbing the value ladder Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13Top three investment priorities  the next  months New product  service introductions Research and development Facilities expansion57   Sector-wise investment priorities Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13R  Chemicals Engineering Facilities expansion Building construction materialsNew services and products Capitai goodsMetalsAuto ancillary Mean expected industry growth Mean expected own revenue growth Planning  hire Planning major investments4.  .    .  .    Key comparisons: India and the  PwC  Key future business activities Expansion  new markets abroadAcquisition   businessNew manufacturing, production  distribution facilities abroadSpin-off  sale  certain operations         Expected barriers  growth     Legislative  regulatory pressuresLack  domestic demand Taxation policiesUSAExpected barriers  growth India    Higher interest rates Lack  domestic demand Pressure for increased wagesIndia Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13 and PwC  Manufacturing Barometer: Business outlook report, July 2o13 India Manufacturing Barometer  PwC14Speciai focus: Customer expectations   difficult economic climate,  sales become sluggish, companies begin  focus, apart from their own operations,  driving additionai value from their suppliers. With most manufacturers, being themselves suppliers  other businesses,  obtained  range  viewpoints from them,  whether and how customer expectations were changing and how they were reacting  them. Understanding customer needs Companies are not only aware, but are also preparing  tackle changing demands and preferences  customers  fostering long-term relationships. While customers are becoming more demanding, particularly with respect  price and payment terms, manufacturers appear   evolving their business models  order  maintain their operating margins. Cost efficiency Indian manufacturers are seeing  change  customer dynamics  the present market.  the companies surveyed,  believe that customer requirements and expectations have changed due  the globai economic environment  weli  the domestic slowdown  growth.  found that Indian customers have strong preferences for higher discounts, among other things. Providing customers value along with low cost Our interviews also revealed that some players wanted  respond  these shifts  build and maintain long-term relationships with customers, both new and existing. , how are they doing ? Cost efficiency appears   the primary strategy  respond  changing customer needs.   surveyed companies stated that they are resorting  cost efficiencies  meet customer requirements. There  ample room  reduce average costs  Indian manufacturing, but such cost savings can come from the elimination  cost inefficiencies.  Cost efficiency can ensure cost competitiveness, which enables companies  gain  larger share  the market. Not just products, but also solutions  customers crave for value additions and efficient delivery systems, companies are striving  keep them interested with service additions. Around  are adding services  their products  order  respond  frequently shifting and disparate customer preferences. This finding  witness  the trend that manufacturing companies are progressing much beyond factory operations, driven  competition. Some companies now want  link their manufacturing operations with nonmanufacturing functions such  customer service, logistics, business solutions, procurement and planning. The trend could help manufacturing companies integrate seamlessly with multiple business partners. Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13  Are Indian firms too smali?  nonparametric analysis  cost efficiency and industry structure  Indian manufacturing, University  Connecticut, March 2oo8EfficientCost efficencies and higher discountsCost efficiencies are important with  resorting  these  meet changing customer demands  are adding services  products  engage with the customer India Manufacturing Barometer15In summary   environment  sluggish economic growth, and deceleration  the manufacturing sector,   not surprising that the mood exhibited  companies appears cautious. Companies appear  have battened down their hatches and are preparing for  period  uncertainty. New investments seem  have been put  hold, with half  the companies surveyed indicating that they had  plans for major investments  FY14. Encouragingly, however,  appears that the sector  using this period  comparatively sluggish activity  realign the business models and prepare for the future. Much  the focus  new investments   new product introduction and    initiatives aimed  improving product portfolio and mix  increase margins.  the light   challenging economic environment, companies are also -evaluating customer propositions and relationships. while adding value  the core product and focusing  longer-term and profitable relationships with customers. Despite uncertainty related  economic conditions, and continued constraints  growth, companies seem  believe that the market may have bottomed out, with GDP growth  FY14 expected   higher than  the previous year. Further, the company surveyed appear confident about its own prospects for growth, with more than  largely expecting their own revenues  grow  higher than  over the next year and profit margins  improve. PwC16Key indicators for the business outlook Business outlook among manufacturers for the next  months Mean expected industry growth  Mean expected own revenue growth .  Margins expected  increase  Planning  hire  Planning major investments  Expenditures planned : New product  service introductions  Research and development  Facilities expansion  Expected barriers  growth: Higher interest rates  Lack  domestic demand  Pressure for increased wages  Oii and energy prices  Legislative  regulatory pressures  Key future business activities: Expansion  new markets abroad  Start  least one new strategic alliance    Acquisition   business  Source: India Manufacturing Barometer Survey, July 2o13 India Manufacturing Barometer17Survey demographics and research methodology Demographics Interview period  Aprii   June 2o13 Average number  employees , 644 Average business unit revenue .  billion INR Industry sectors Auto ancillary Building and construction materials Capitai goods Chemicals Engineering Met als Methodology The India Manufacturing Barometer  based   survey conducted  PwC and Avalon Globai Research. Our survey covered senior executives from  sample  manufacturing companies  India; interviewees typically held designations such  CEO, CFO, COO  Head  Strategy. About FICCI FICCI Contacts  Chetan Bijesure Director Head Manufacturing  Samir Mathur Senior Assistant Director  Nisha Goei Senior Assistant Director  Shailja Garg Assistant Director shailja. garg ficci. comEstablished  1927, FICCI  the largest and oldest apex business organisation  India. Its history  closely interwoven with India  struggle for independence, its industrialization, and its emergence  one  the most rapidly growing globai economies. FICCI has contributed  this historicai process  encouraging debate, articulating the private sector  views and influencing policy.  non-government, not-for-profit organisation, FICCI  the voice  India  business and industry. FICCI draws its membership from the corporate sector, both private and public, including SMEs and MNCs; FICCI enjoys  indirect membership  over , , ooo companies from various regionai chambers  commerce. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcAcknowledgements Amiya Satpathy Avalon Globai Research Manan Tolat Mohan Verma Neelesh Shrikhande Neeta Phaterphekar Ravind Mithe   Sukumar Tapobrata Das RoyPwC Contacts Bimai Tanna Leader, Industriai Products Dushyant Singh Associate Director, Strategy pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - July 2o13 ManufacturingBarometer. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India