Title: pwc_leading-industry-practices-in-security-and-privacy
Date Published: 2013-07-11 12:22:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_leading-industry-practices-in-security-and-privacy.pdf
Word Count: 5099
Sentence Count: 425
Average Sentence Length: 18.73

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
security: 209
privacy: 90
information: 78
organisations: 77
compliance: 63
data: 58
organisation: 47
requirements: 42
business: 41
dsci: 40
also: 40
management: 37
strategy: 36
pwc: 33
industry: 30
order: 30
services: 26
various: 26
controls: 24
banks: 24

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Leading industry practices  security and privacy www. pwc.  DSCI Excellence AwardsContent list:  easy  read --glance summary. Banking  Telecom  -Governance   services p1o BPO p12 Privacy  DSCI Excellence Awardsp17  PwC - DSCIOrganisations today need   increasingly secure  the environment  which they operate  more and more complex and dynamic with attackers using innovative techniques such  emerging mobile and cloud platforms. Security response  this challenge must  equally innovative -  way that helps  organisation become nimble footed  respond quickly  reai threats  its environment.  should  able  assess its maturity  implementing security  different areas with  view  continually improve the same.  Security programme needs   dynamic and vibrant such that  enables quick response  threats, vulnerabilities and actuai cyber attacks. Data Security Councii  India DSCI has been promoting such  approach through its DSCI Security Framework DSF -  security discipline specific approach based   set  security principles - visibility, vigilance, coverage accuracy, discipline  defense; focus  strategic, tacticai and operationai layers, powered   data-centric implementation methodology.   gratifying  see that DSF has found acceptance  the industry, and that   being used  reference guide  improve security practices  many organisations. DSCI decided that  was equally important  recognise, honour and reward organisations and individuals who have implemented strong, effective and resilient data protection programmes  help them address reai risks, build resilience, increase trustworthiness and create  environment conducive  business. With this  mind, DSCI announced the institution  the DSCI Excellence Awards  the year 2o11.  the very first year,  received  nominations representing  organisations across  categories  the corporate segment.  the second year,  received  even more encouraging response  nominations, inspiring    better each year.  are very thankfui  the industry for reposing its faith  DSCI.   pleased  present  you Leading industry practices for security and privacy compiled based  the analysis  the actuai practices implemented  organisations  revealed  the DSCI Excellence Awards nominations. This report wili help the organisations benchmark themselves against the best practices, and wili enable them  incorporate security and privacy best practices  their business operations.   convinced organisations wili  motivated  further improve their security and privacy programmes, and many more wili participate  the DSCI Excellence Awards this year. . Kamlesh Bajaj CEO - DSCIForeword Leading industry practices  security and privacy 3Organisations  India are leading the pack, faring even better than their foreign counterparts,  security and privacy initiatives.  many instances, the clients, who outsource their work  India, find the security and privacy practices  India based service providers   more robust and mature. These clients are using contractuai obligations with their outsourcing partners  drive security and privacy controls more comprehensively. Having said that, given the spate  incidences that have persistently troubled our nation  the field  security and privacy,   essentiai  realise that organisations  India stili have  long way  . DSCI -  NASSCOM initiative - has been working with organisations  alleviate some  these challenges. One  the practices  achieve this  the Best-Practices symposiums conducted regularly  order  evangelise and highlight innovations. Another feature, that has become  popular part  the initiative,  the DSCI Excellence Awards. Started  2o11  recognise and honour successfui organisations and individuals  the field  security, the awards have seen  overwhelming response  the first two years  their existence. Leaders  various organisations have nominated themselves across different categories  awards. While there were over  nominations  various categories, the enthusiasm  2o12 topped the previous year  numbers  some margin. Organisations from the  services, BPO, banking, telecom and eGovernance domains have participated  these awards. Year 2o12 also saw the advent   speciai category  privacy, highlighting the need  specifically deai with the subject.  are proud  mention that PwC has been assisting DSCI through this award process since its inception.   part  this process,  wealth  information has been put forward, highlighting the essentiai practices that these organisations have been institutionalising  their domains.  analysis  this has revealed interesting trends. For example, while business process management BPM BPO organisations have worked effectively  cater  their customers using compliance-based initiatives, the banking sector has reached the stage where  finds merit  automating its GRC portfolio and incorporating security and privacy aspects  part  their controi framework. Similarly, while telecom companies are striving  ensure that their infrastructure  safe from malicious intent  improving the security  the telecom infrastructure components, eGovernance projects are devising comprehensive strategies  provide reliable services despite sheer size and volume  delivery. Finally, with the user-base  sociai networking systems skyrocketing  never- before numbers, the risks associated with sharing information that  private  individuals  also growing  proportion. Organisations are dealing with this  surprisingly innovative ways; while ensuring due cognisance  the fundamentals  the domain. With the intent  helping better current practices,   proud  present this report highlighting some  the initiatives that your organisation may like  follow.  hope you find  usefui for improving security posture, drive privacy and achieve compliance  regulatory requirements. Sivarama Krishnan Executive director - PricewaterhouseCoopers, IndiaPreface  PwC - DSCIBanking With cyber-attacks becoming more unpredictable and electronic payment systems becoming susceptible  innovative attack variations, banks have started introducing certain minimum checks and balances  minimise the impact  such attacks. Security strategy and governance Most banks have defined and deployed  robust information security framework  mitigate risks   pro- active  weli  reactive manner. Ali strategic plans and decisions for security and privacy are taken   team involving business, operations,  and information security.  part  the structure, focussed information security forums have been formed  oversee the design, enforcement and compliance  the information security framework. The security framework  extended and implemented through the information security policy and procedures. The policies are being framed  consultation with business owners and are approved  senior management and stakeholders.  centrai information security committee  being constituted  oversee and manage the security program  most banks.  part  the strategy, most  the banks have also started using technology  have  integrated view  governance risk and compliance framework  deploying GRC tools. This helps them  have  comprehensive view  the controls framework and compliance dashboard. Banks have started deploying automated governance risk and compliance solutions  have  comprehensive view  the controi framework. Compliance Banks are steadily moving towards defining the compliance function   part  the overali governance structure. Security effectiveness metrics and performance indicators help measure compliance reporting. These indicators are used  depict the compliance status and maturity  security controls. From  compliance perspective, ali applications that have  impact  the bank  financiai statements,  weli  criticai applications are considered  banks under the purview  the regulatory framework and are audited   periodic basis. The metrics generated from the compliance programme are populated  the security dashboard and actions are initiated for improvement. For ensuring compliance  security,  formai audit program   place  most  the banks. Some  them are also using independent third parties  perform audits and measure compliance effectiveness. Awareness and culture  part  the awareness strategy, banks have targeted both internai  weli  externai stakeholders . . employees and customers. Smali capsules  targeted training are delivered frequently  that information security stays  the mentai horizon  employees. Customised audio  visuai films showing various scenarios are being utilised  banks  create awareness. These short videos are thought- provoking, visually pleasing and engage the audience. Such films are shot  organisations themselves -house  order  generate interest and better impact. Short awareness capsules are delivered frequently instead  lengthy sessions. Banks are leveraging   dedicated information security portai  weli  their internai staff training centres  meet security training and awareness requirements. Security organisation  bank  security organisation starts with the formation  apex committees with the board  directors who provide direction. The security organisation structure  formed  such  manner that   aligned with business requirements and business goals. Banks have  dedicated Chief Information Security Officer CISO who heads and governs the information security program  coordination with the functionai teams. Some banks have clearly defined the responsible, accountable, consulted and informed RACI matrix  provide clear roles and responsibilities with respect  security activities. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 5To operationalise security,  have seen  trend wherein banks are moving towards  managed security services modei.  some cases,  sourcing modei  followed  supplement the security organisation. Third-party management Banks have started developing comprehensive outsourcing policies  order  cover risks arising out  third-party engagement. These policies are aligned with the RBI guidelines and other regulatory requirements.   process, ali outsourcing contracts are endorsed  the legai division  banks. Some  the key information security aspects incorporated  part  these contracts include the right  audit, non-disclosure agreement NDA and specific compliance requirements against standards such  PCI-DSS, ISO 27oo1, etc. Basic security controls such  right  audit, NDA, compliance  specific standards are included  the contracts.  part  the third-party management, banks have  complete list  ali third parties and have also identified single points  contact  manage these with respect  information security. Banks are using independent third- party agencies  perform periodic onsite assessment  their criticai vendors based  information security controls. Banks are also mandating third parties  provide  self- assessment compliance certificate   periodic basis  ensure that the vendor has self-reviewed and are compliant with ali security requirements  defined  the banks. Data-centric initiatives  meet upcoming challenges, banks are following  holistic risk management approach. They have started using process and technicai controls  address data security risks. These include classification  information and using tools such  Information Right Management IRM, Data Loss Prevention DLP and fuli disk encryption. Data exchange with third parties are protected  using technologies such  secure FTP, strong authentication mechanism and monitoring these connections   regular basis. Banks are also getting their criticai locations such  data centre, disaster recovery site certified against information security standards such  ISO 27oo1, ISO 223o1 and PCI- DSS. Some banks have also developed  comprehensive list  security metrics automated using methodologies such  ISO 27oo4. Domain specific initiatives Most banks have implemented  number  controls  minimise the risk  fraud due  internet  mobile banking. These controls include the following: Advance authentication mechanism such  SMS based one time password OTP, challenge response questions, out  band OTP, and site--user authentication Water marking tools for mitigating phishing risks  their net banking websites Rule-based fraud monitoring engines for detecting reai- time credit card frauds Reai-time SMS and emaii alert system  customers  mitigate the risk  any fraudulent and unauthorised transactions One-time-use cards self created  customers with  pre-defined limit set  the customer  deter from credit card frauds Mobile application assessment and code signing for mobile banking Water marking tools are used  mitigate phishing risks  net banking website.  PwC - DSCITelecom The telecommunication network technology has evolved from the traditionai public switched telephone network PSTN  , and more recently   network services. Today  telecommunication industry has  operate within  new and more accountable business environment, with  whole gamut  services such  the Internet, VAS, and   apart from the traditionai communication services. The networks are increasingly being targeted  motivated attackers  intercept, disrupt  deny communications. These attackers may include individuai  organisationai hackers  even state-sponsored agencies. Additionally, given that telecommunications constitutes  criticai part  the infrastructure for any country, regulators and government bodies are looking   comprehensive range  security solutions and are  longer simply imposing financiai penalties for defaulters. Therefore,  stay ahead  the competition, operators must maintain  secure, highly available infrastructure providing resilient and reliable services  their subscribers. Security strategy and governance Within the telecommunications environment,  find that information security  integrated across diverse and dynamic business environments, encompassing people, processes, and technologies. Technology plays  key role today  the implementation  the information security strategy. Operators rely not only  the application  baseline security standards for . . ISO 27oo1, PCI- DSS etc, but also focus  cyber crime analysis and investigations. The security initiatives adequately address governance and compliance issues, and ensure  risk- based security structure approach and posture. Certification towards standards such  ISO 27oo1, PCI-DSS,  25999 ISO 223o1  being observed. Early detection and reducing the cost  security incidents  one  the key aspects   weli-defined security strategy. Compliance with regulatory requirements   important consideration while creating the strategy. Last, but most importantly, the overali strategy alignment  made with the business goals. Security organisation  line with the goals  the security strategy  telecom companies, steering committees headed  the top management have been formed  order  govern the security strategy. The CIO, CTO, CISO are permanent members  the steering committee, while other functionai heads such  the chief human resource officer CHRO, the chief marketing officer CMO and the chief financiai officer CFO, are invited  and when required. Besides, cross-functionai security teams have been created and business involvement and management representation  ensured  ali spheres. Given the criticality  the sector from  nationai security perspective, collaboration with externai stakeholders   key aspect for developing  weli- framed security organisation. This also involves telecom companies actively engaging with the Department  Telecommunications DoT, industry associations, Computer Emergency Response Team  India CERT- , DSCI and similar other bodies. Since some telecom companies operate  the internationai arena  weli, they have also been aligning their centrai strategies  other geographies, with requisite customisation. For this purpose, internationai legai teams are working collaboratively  order  assist the security organisations  draft uniform policies  govern the environments. Compliance  the case  the telecom industry, compliance mainly revolves around factors such , regulatory compliance, telecom network security compliance,  security compliance, third-party security compliance, functionai security compliance, compliance  various ISO standards, data protection laws, CMMI standards etc. Regular audits, risk assessments and reviews form the basis  such compliances. Most operators have created  multi-tiered structure  order  address these compliances. The compliance process involves building -depth security controls across ali departments  the organisation, such  finance, , legai,  etc. Information security teams,  consultation with other cross-functionai teams provide regulatory compliance  technicai and business solutions across the organisation. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 7Awareness and culture Awareness usually starts from the dissemination  the information security policy  the organisation  participating  meetings, and understanding the importance  security concepts and their significance  the respective domains. The target audience  identified and the corresponding requirements understood. These trainings are delivered  means  tools, frameworks and channels. Some organisations have also taken  incentivising trainings  having properly scheduled events  train and educate employees and contractors. Incentivising training and proper assessment   key step towards  successfui security organisation Many organisations prefer  follow  centralised training system using computer-aided techniques, including online training modules. Third- party management Some  the leading telecom operators have outsourced their core network management,  management, contact centres and retaii outlets. There are severai vendors and partners for sales and distribution, marketing, and , who handle customer and employee data. Therefore, third party security governance   key component for these operators. For  efficient management  the third party,  risk management framework  used and risk- based audits are carried out, both directly and  using independent third-party agencies. Internationai standards are put into contracts with such vendors and partners for -risking operations. Operators usually prefer  have framed selection criteria for third parties and the centrai governance teams have standard assessment parameters for evaluation purpose. For audit observations, the vendors are time-bound  address the identified issues  order  ensure compliance. For outsourced processes  the telecom domain, risks related  security are also being channelised  vendors and partners through contracts, where penalties are also being borne  the vendors. Data-centric Initiatives Most operators have  comprehensive range  data protection programmes across various functions, processes, platforms and locations. The purpose  these programmes   evaluate, identify, design and implement various data protection initiatives  order  protect business sensitive data  various stages  its life cycle. Data leakage analysis  done for criticai business functions. Data leakage prevention tools are being deployed  -risk business management. Some  the telecom operators have adopted  quantitative approach towards discovering and identifying criticai data elements.  layered approach for data protection   convenient approach, and organisations usually prefer  segregated architecturai treatment. Effectiveness and gaps are periodically assessed  accordance  which, required controls and initiatives are driven  mitigate the identified gaps. Domain- specific security initiatives Being  criticai part  the infrastructure  the country, the domain security initiatives  telecom operators are tailored  the information passing through the organisations infrastructure.  ensure the security  sensitive data, telecom operators routinely perform vulnerability assessments  their infrastructure, conduct application security assessments, maintain audit trails for ali criticai components  the infrastructure and carry out cyber-security drills under the aegis  CERT- .  addition  these, for adherence  the laws and regulations, telecom operators also certify themselves  standards such  ISO 27oo1, PCI DSS, and business continuity standards such   25999 ISO 223o1.   result  regulatory changes, telecom operators have started performing  security assessment for the core telecom network.  PwC - DSCIe-Governance Over the years,  large number  transformation and mission mode projects have been undertaken  various centrai ministries and state governments  order  provide quality services  the citizen   more transparent and efficient manner. These services involve information transaction and processing, and  some cases -payment services are being offered  the citizens.  increased usage    providing these services has also exposed the government organisations  increased number  sophisticated attacks.   therefore essentiai  ensure that disruptions  criticai government information systems are contained and managed effectively  order  minimise their impact. Security strategy and governance Some  the organisations have started defining security requirements from the project initiation stage itself. Such organisations have been referring  various guidelines issued  the Department  Electronics and Information technology DeitY and the CERT-  define their security strategy. Capacity building with respect  information security  the core component  the security strategy. Most  these departments have adopted the ISO 27oo1 standard  order  define the security framework and the certification requirements are clearly laid down  the tender  Request for Proposai RFP documents for  projects. Capacity building  the core component  the security strategy, and various training and certification requirements have been clearly identified for the stakeholders. The means and mechanisms deployed  order  operationalise the security strategy include governance through  Information Security Management System ISMS framework and process standardisation through Standard Operating Procedures SOPs. Security organisation Some organisations have  dedicated information security committee headed  the senior most member  the organisation. These committees have representation from both, internai  weli  externai stakeholders such  departmentai heads, independent advisors and representation from service providers.  information security committee and  security officer have been nominated  order  drive information security. Some  the organisations have  designated chief information security officer CISO, who  assigned  oversee the implementation and effectiveness  the implemented security framework. Further key responsibility areas KRAs have been defined  order  create the ownership and accountability within the organisation. These personnei who are responsible  drive the security programme have undergone trainings and also hold certifications such  CISA, CISM and CISSP. Compliance Organisations are appointing third-party agencies  review and report the compliance status. The scope  such reviews consists  network-levei assessments, security requirements, adherence  service levels, application security audits and asset audits. Some organisations have specific service levei agreements SLAs related  information security and penalties are levied  the third parties  vendor,  case some gaps have been identified. Third party agencies are appointed  review and measure the compliance  the security operations. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 9Awareness and culture Creating awareness within the government sector  the most challenging aspect due  the scale and stakeholder maturity. Some organisations are using various mechanisms  order  create awareness including class room training and computer-based training programmes. Various security advisories are issued  the senior management  ali project locations   regular basis. Security newsletters are published   -linguai format including English and Hindi, which have been weli appreciated  stakeholders and have been able  create  impact  the ground levei. Various quizzes are being organised and deserving officers are appreciated and encouraged  senior members  create  visibility within the organisation. Third- party management Government organisations have clearly started defining the security requirements  their tender and contract documents. These requirements include Non Disclosure Agreement NDA clauses, ownership  the source code, background screening and security controls   deployed during the development, operation and independent review  these requirements  part  the contract itself. Security requirements are defined during the initiation  the project itself. Security requirements are created   part  RFP and contracts and  KPI-based monitoring and assessment approach  followed. Data- centric initiatives Most government organisations have undertaken conscious effort  protect business criticai data through the implementation  business continuity and disaster recovery  plans for their datacenter. The testing  these  plans  performed regularly  order  check the efficiency and effectiveness  the implementation. Organisations have made clear demarcations between development and testing environments,  order  segregate duties between the development and operation teams. Various encryption mechanisms are being used  protect the confidentiality  data. Security incident and event management SIEM solutions are deployed  order  have  reai-time view  the threat landscape. Security incidents are reported  the respective stakeholders who  turn, take corrective actions. Domain- specific security initiatives The applications used  organisations follow  software development lifecycle methodology and user acceptance testing  conducted before moving  production. Vulnerability assessment and penetration testing  performed  third parties appointed for networks and application infrastructure and independent code reviews help plug the vulnerabilities and thus yield performance benefits.  some  the G2B and G2C services, transactionai security  ensured  SSL, secure file transfers and digitai certificates.  cases where high probability  spoofing instances are likely multi-factor authentication like biometric, OTP based authentication and digitai signature  public key infrastructure are used for  high degree  authentication assurance.  PwC - DSCIIT services The  services industry  India has come  long way since inception. With the focus shifting from pure-play development and implementation projects  the industry, effort driven towards customer satisfaction through quality, productivity and value delivery  now required.  addition  these factors,  security strategy aligned with the business strategy helps achieve  comprehensive services portfolio with  new levei  confidence for customers. Security, therefore,   more being seen   obligatory investment but   investment which generates returns. Service models such  cloud computing are expected  further drive integration  security   service delivery. Security strategy and governance  part  the strategy,  companies have taken  inclusive approach rather than  standalone one  policy-framing,  setting   management security forum chaired  the CXO and comprising senior members from various organisations. Additionally,  business-aligned security approach  enabling earlier involvement  security  new initiatives rather than having  bolt- expensive security remedies later. Embedding risk management  daily operations, putting processes and technologies  place for information security and continuous monitoring and study  emerging threats are considered essentiai for the implementation   security strategy. Companies are making the abilities  customise and scale essentiai components  security policy  deai with geography and industry based risks. For the successfui implementation  the security strategy, employee awareness, physicai security, compliance  statutory, audit standards and customer contracts have been defined  core components. Regular assessment  existing and new controls, comprehensive and regular risk assessment and analysis  business requirements are the basis for defining the organisation  security strategy. The information security team which has direct support and involvement from management and business  most likely  implement the security strategy effectively. There  also focus  infrastructure optimisation, consolidation and providing flexibility  work from anywhere using mobile devices.  companies want  derive maximum benefits  technology, there  also  weli-defined strategy  implementing information security measures  address new risks associated with the adoption  new technologies and the changing threat horizon. Security organisation  terms  creating  strategic roadmap for  responsive and competent security organisation, detailed hierarchy structures are created  most  companies for security. The roles and responsibilities are weli defined and clearly articulated. Involvement  senior management   key aspect for proper implementation  the security strategy.  facilitate that, periodic reporting and review mechanisms are provided  senior management. Additionally, cross-functionai interaction  maintained and skili -gradation training  carried out   periodic basis and  often incentivised.   criticai  note that security creates value for organisations and their clients. Organisations have started creating independent teams that assist  reviewing the RFP for any business engagements and reviewing any specific security requirements. These help understand the concerns  business teams upfront and deliver the value additions. Compliance  most  services companies today, the security organisation  working  tandem with the legai department  look for applicable statutes having  bearing  information security and necessary compliance requirements under those statutes.  look  compliance   holistic manner,  services organisations are also conducting spot audits many times using independent third parties, reviewing security incidents, and involving ali stakeholders while determining the challenges faced  comply with existing security standards. Compliance tools are being utilised  project compliance status  the management through snapshots  overali compliance  the organisation. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 11Organisations have  separate compliance function  adhere  regulatory and other applicable requirements. Awareness and culture Having policies and procedures alone does not ensure security compliance  the organisation does not create adequate awareness among its employees. Companies are integrating security and compliance awareness training into the induction programmes  their associates. These trainings are being customised  per the target audience including third-party staff. Proactive reward mechanisms for disclosure  non-compliances  policy are also being seen   way  raise awareness and promote  culture  disclosure among employees. Companies are resorting  various modes  communication like print media, technology, direct communication and are innovating  articulate their security and compliance policies. Customised handbooks are being designed for managers and associates.  bring  practicality  training modules, reai-life scenarios,  addition  contractuai and statutory requirements are being considered while designing the content. Data-centric initiatives Data   the core  every business, perhaps more   the case   services. Many such organisations are also seeing IPR protection   criticai area for data-centric security strategy. Organisations have built  weli-defined information and asset classification policy  ensure that ali information owned  the company and the client  clearly labeled and classified. Controls are being put  place  secure such data, and the strength  such controls  commensurate  the levei  classification. IPR protection  being considered   key parameter  defining  data-centric security strategy. Domain specific initiatives  businesses move towards the cloud, clients are looking for security features  systems that enable such transitions. This has resulted  focusing  tiered approach  integrated security models. The traditionai systems development life cycle SDLC process has been replaced with  secure SDLC   services organisations, which enables identification  security requirements  customers and ensures customisability  information systems being implemented  handle such needs.  development  moving from  traditionai SDLC towards  secure-SDLC, where security requirements and modules are embedded  the development process. While segregated offshore development centres for each client have been the norm for some time, new challenges have arisen. Clients and employees have started using newer technologies such  smartphones and tablets for business purposes, demanding more comprehensive service portfolios. The security functions   services organisations have started enabling these transitions  introducing policies such  bring-your-own-device BYOD.  PwC - DSCIBPO The business process outsourcing BPO industry  India has witnessed phenomenai growth  providing significant cost savings, higher quality products and processes and improved operationai performance. Studies have shown that security controls deployed  the BPO industry  India are much more stringent  compared  controls deployed even  their clients. Given the sensitivity  data handled  BPOs, security   integrai part  service delivery. The industry has  comply with various regulatory requirements across different geographies along with customer-specific requirements. Security strategy and governance While defining the security strategy, BPOs are not only considering specific security requirements  clients but also internationai standards and regulatory requirements. The BPO security strategy takes into account ali components  the ecosystem including employees, third parties, business partners and suppliers. Organisations are also trying  integrate their security framework with the enterprise risk management ERM and business continuity management BCM framework  order  optimise the efforts and have  integrated framework for better sustenance. Most BPOs have ensured that their security strategy  aligned with business requirements. Organisations have taken various measures such  ensuring business representation during the formulation, review and feedback  the security strategy, which  derived from the business plan. Integrated framework comprising information security, enterprise risk management and business continuity are deployed  optimise the effort. Compliance The compliance function  this sector   dedicated and separate function  the organisation. The scope  compliance  BPOs revolves around legai and regulatory compliances, contractuai compliances, policies and procedures, code  conduct, licences and ethics management. Some organisations have  dedicated compliance manager aligned  specific functions  process  oversee and manage compliance requirements. Compliance  ISO 27oo1 requirements   basic norm followed across the BPO industry. Knowledge management relating  compliance  done   structured manner and compliance reports are published   regular basis, with circulation amongst relevant stakeholders. Internai audits, metric collection and analysis, dashboard reviews and management reviews are undertaken using compliance and GRC tools  monitor the effectiveness and compliance status. Awareness and culture Awareness  the criticai component  the security strategy. Various measures are implemented  create security awareness among stakeholders using both puli and push techniques. Such techniques include  induction programme for new joinees, -learning modules, portai, mailers, screensavers, posters and focused discussion groups. KPI based assessment  also done for assessing the effectiveness  awareness programmes. Deserving candidates are rewarded. Various security contests and quizzes are organised where winners are announced  the entire organisation  order  create visibility. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 13Security organisation Most BPOs have drafted  layered security organisation modei with clearly defined strategic, tacticai and operationai layers  operationalise the security strategy. Roles and responsibilities are clearly defined for ali three layers and stakeholders from different functions are part  the security organisation.  most cases, the BCP, information security and the data privacy team make sure that the security organisation  aligned  business goals. Together they form part   holistic risk and compliance team. Relevant information security certifications and externai trainings are stressed upon and skili -gradation programmes are carried out with proper monitoring mechanisms for the security team. Some  the organisations have gone further  setting   centre  excellence  assist various business units for risk management. Externai participation with nodai agencies such  CERT-  and industry bodies such  NASSCOM, DSCI, etc forms  integrai part  the security strategy for BPOs. Data-centric initiatives The information security programme  BPOs mostly focuses  clearly identified and prioritised criticai data  order  protect  with appropriate controls. Most organisations prefer having  data-centric security framework and methodology. Process owners are responsible for ensuring that information  classified  per the defined guidelines and deployed controls  the organisation BPOs have started deploying comprehensive privacy policies  per the various regulatory requirements such  the  Act, DPA and HIPAA requirements. Conventionai controi mechanisms are placed such  restricted access  the workfloor, physicai assets, printing, internet and signing  confidentiality agreements. BPOs have also deployed advanced technicai controls such  masking  confidentiai data, deployment  DLP and DRM tools  reduce the risk associated with the breach and exposure  sensitive data. Encryption solutions have been deployed for mobile devices, production, non-production systems, externai media and archivai data. Some  these BPOs have defined comprehensive privacy principles based  the  Act Clause  , DPA and HIPAA requirements. Domain specific security initiatives Most BPOs stress upon information security and data privacy across ali projects. They prefer having  common approach framework for engagement executions, with  baseline  different internationai standards such  ISO 27oo1 and acts such  HIPAA. Client-specific requirements are implemented for particular functions and processes. These include compliance  PCI-DSS, DPA  any client-specific security requirements. Notable approaches deployed  some  these organisations include implementation  policy for mobile devices for recording, storage and transmission, portable media declaration and encryption, aiding forensic investigation, shifting  users from role-based access  command-based access.  PwC - DSCIPrivacy Organisations are accountable for data collection and its use. Accountability  emerging   fundamentai privacy concept. The onus must lie  organisations handling and protecting personai information, rather than transferring the responsibility  data collection and usage  the individuai, through complex notices, choices and consent. The revisions  privacy regulations globally, have put  lot  emphasis  accountability.  India, the framework for creating  privacy bili released  the Planning Commission also emphasises  the accountability principle. For organisations, this means having  comprehensive privacy programme  place, which  based   weli-defined privacy strategy   policy and the programme  implemented across the organisation, with appropriate monitoring and oversight mechanisms  place  order  check non-compliances and performance. This  somewhat similar  the ways  which information security  designed and implemented  the organisations today.  build such  organisationai privacy competence requires privacy standards, practices and frameworks  which such organisations can build their privacy programme. Framework for privacy implementation Organisations across the globe are governed  either geographic, industry verticai  function-specific privacy legislation  regulations. Absence  globai standards  privacy has led  organisations developing and maintaining their privacy program  conformance  regulatory requirements. Some  them have also started using DSCI Privacy Framework DPF  administer and manage their privacy initiatives. Most user organisations that have globai operations  are serving globai clients based, have implemented  globai policy and adopted best practices, guidelines and standards when  comes  the collection, use, disclosure, access, storage, retention and protection  personai information. Some  them have also started using the DSCI Privacy Framework DPF  order  administer and manage their privacy initiatives. Visibility over personai information  order achieve compliance with corporate privacy policies and privacy laws that  organisation  subjected ,   important  have visibility over the personai information dealt  the organisation. Few organisations have developed structured processes and perform exercises  learn which functions, processes and relationship handle personai information. Use  globai privacy assessment processes and tools, helps companies  define proper methods for assessing the ways  which personai information   collected, stored, processed and transmitted, both  online and offline environment. Organisations, after gaining visibility, classify the personai information into various sub categories such  PII Personai Identifiable Information, SPDI Sensitive Personai Data  Information, PFI Personai Financiai Information, PHI Personai Health Information etc. depending  applicable regulatory requirements. Data lifecycle management processes are instituted for managing the visibility  customer . Data flow maps are created for various business lines and functions which describe the flow  personai information within and outside the organisation. Organisations are moving towards identifying Personai Information and classifying  for commensurate protection. Organisations not only collect  from their customers and clients, but also from their employees for the purposes  employment and the visibility scope exercise mostly covers this aspect  weli. Privacy policy and processes Organisations have implemented the privacy policy based  the globai privacy principles such  section 43A  the  Amendment Act, 2oo8, the  Data Protection Directive, the  Data Protection Act, and other country- specific privacy laws. Based  the privacy policy, organisations have framed weli-defined privacy processes, guidelines and standards. The purpose  the Privacy policy   communicate organisation  commitment for privacy protection  relevant stakeholders.  also defines organisation  role, whether  Data Controller   Data Processor. This helps them  including the relevant privacy principles  Note: Nominations received  the DSCI Excellence Awards under the Privacy category were mostly received from the  and business process outsourcing BPO industry, and therefore the leading practices described  this section mostly reflect the industry  environment. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 15their policy based  the role. Some organisations have also built separate privacy policy for its employees. The policy also mentions organisation  effort  safeguard personai information dealt with  . Organisations are reducing the privacy risks  the combined use  privacy policy and contractuai terms  create accountability  the form  transparent, enforceable commitments  responsible data handling. Privacy organisation and relationship  few organisations have  dedicated data privacy office headed   chief privacy officer, who  accountable for privacy assurance  clients globally and responsible for data protection and privacy aspects across the organisation. Each organisationai unit has its responsibility for ensuring privacy. While the strategic group  primarily responsible for setting privacy goals and objectives, the tacticai layer converts the finalized goals into specific roles and responsibilities and the operationai team implements privacy initiatives and projects. Few companies have integrated data privacy policy and procedures  part  ISMS suite. Organisations are slowly transitioning  having dedicated privacy resources, drifting away from conventionai trend  security professionals playing duai role  security and privacy. This brings  the fore its emerging importance  the organisation. Regulatory compliance intelligence The regulatory landscape  today  environment demands  robust organisationai structure  order  address the dynamic challenges. Organisations have addressed this  creating  dedicated structure for governance, compliance and risk. The legai services function within these companies keeps themselves abreast  ali changes  regulations and compliance- related issues. The internai audit function also conducts periodic reviews  order  ensure that the compliance requirements are met. Regulatory compliance intelligence  such firms  also strengthened  utilizing services  law firms and harping  information from open sources. Active externai collaborations with organisations such  DSCI and Internationai Association  Privacy Professionals IAPP also help  building RCI capabilities  organisations. Privacy contract management  continuously maintain trust amongst stakeholders and create accountability within  extended environment, privacy contracts are signed with clients, service providers and internai customers. These contracts are documented  line with the requirements for compliance with legislations, regulations and contractuai obligations   applicable  different geographies. Contracts help  carry out data processing  personai and sensitive personai data strictly  per the terms and conditions stipulated  the clients and for  other purposes. Organisations are ensuring that they include privacy specific clauses  their contracts and agreements for sharing liabilities. The specific clauses are built  line with the role organisation  playing - data controller  data processor. Self-assessments are being carried out  organisations based  the privacy principles applicable  them and their role  data controller and data processor The data privacy office,  some organisations, maintains  inventory  the liability conditions that  organisation incorporates  the contractuai terms. Formai disciplinary action  warranted when non- compliance takes place. Monitoring and incident management Organisations have weli-defined systems  address privacy incidents. Incidents  privacy violations, security weaknesses, misuse   resources, violation  policies and procedures are being reported without any delay  the online security incident management systems. Employees and contractors are empowered  report incidents and prevent further attempts  damage. The learning  from such privacy incidents helps the management  take sufficient steps  order  ensure that effective privacy controls have been implemented  -established  minimise the occurrence  such incidents.  PwC - DSCIContractuai compliances are also monitored  performing third-party assessments. Information access and usage Properly managed access controi policies exist  most companies  order  protect sensitive personai data, along with IPR, trade secrets and software code designs,  line with the classification levei. These companies employ role-based access controi lists and access review processes such  quarterly employment verification and business need validation  ensure that superfluous accesses are removed. Weli- defined logicai and physicai access controls are deployed  order  prevent breach  privacy information  various levels. Organisations also have built capabilities  ensure that the personai information  used only for the purpose initially determined and communicated  the individuals. Periodic reviews and audits, both internai and externai, are conducted  ensure that actuai usage does not deviate from the purpose  usage. Privacy awareness and training Most businesses give utmost importance  include  mandatory privacy education programme for employees and have implemented appropriate technicai and organisationai measures  safeguard personai information. Awareness sessions are designed through  collaborative approach with cross-functionai work groups. Training courses and awareness programmes are designed, keeping  mind the client requirements for security and privacy, the emerging threat landscape, existing business risks statutory provisions mandated  internationai laws and standards. Personai information security Adequate controls are established  ensure the   secured. This includes required administrative, technicai and physicai safeguards. Various tools and solutions are used  the organisations  secure   rest,   Transit and  during processing. The lifecycle  data management  followed and requisite security controls are built  protect   ali stages. The destruction disposai   follow the information classification and handling procedure  the customer mandated requirements,  applicable. The Security Policy and Procedures pertaining  organisationai data are also applicable   protection.  creating multiple layers  defense through physicai security, intrusion prevention systems, firewalls, DMZ, VPNs, server hardening, logicai access controls, application compliance and data encryption direct attacks  criticai systems containing  are arguably prevented  some extent. Leading industry practices  security and privacy 17About the Awards  line with its objective  raise the levei  security and privacy   and BPO service providers  order  assure their clients and other stakeholders that India   secure destination for globai sourcing and also promote data protection  domestic industry segments like Banking, Telecom, -commerce and - governance, DSCI instituted the DSCI Excellence Awards  2o11  annually recognize and honour organisations and individuals who have shown high levei  preparedness and have excelled  the area  information security and privacy. Objectives  the Awards The objectives  DSCI Excellence Awards are  follows: DSCI Excellence Awards Recognition Honour: Recognize, honour and reward organisations and individuals who have taken strategic, proactive and innovative security and privacy efforts  help the organisation address reai risks, build resilience, increase trustworthiness and create  conducive environment for doing business and thus enable the organisation  harness data protection   lever for business growth. Elevate the role  Security function: Highlight the importance  security function and its contribution  the overali business ecosystem   organisation. Awareness and knowledge: Bring about awareness towards the need for Information Security and privacy within organisations and society  large. Categories for DSCI Excellence Awards  Write  awards dsci.   visit www. dsci.  for more details. Security Security  organisation Banking Telecom -Governance -commerce  Services large and SME BPO large and SME Security leader  the year Emerging information security product company Privacy Privacy  organisation Privacy leader  the yearCorporate segment Law enforcement segment Capacity building State police  investigation agency Investigation India cyber cop  the year PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcAbout PwC Satyavati Berera Tei:  124 33o 6o11 Emaii: satyavati. berera . pwc. com Sivarama Krishnan Tei:  124 33o 6o18 Emaii: sivarama. krishnan . pwc. com Siddharth Vishwanath Tei:   6669 1559 Emaii: siddharth. vishwanath . pwc. com Arup Sen Tei:   6669 1o78 Emaii: arup. sen . pwc. com Harpreet Singh Tei:  124 33o 6o12 Emaii: harpreet. singh . pwc. com Kumar Dasgupta Tei:   6669 1341 Emaii: kumar. dasgupta . pwc. com Manpreet Singh Ahuja Tei:  124 33o 6o21 Emaii: manpreet. singh. ahuja . pwc. com Neeraj Gupta Tei:  124 33o 6o1o Emaii: . neeraj. gupta . pwc. com Sanjay Dhawan Tei:   4o79 7oo3 Emaii: sanjay. dhawan . pwc. com Tapan Ray Tei:   6669 12o4 Emaii: tapan. ray . pwc. com Nationai Practice Leader RAS About DSCI DSCI   focai body  data protection  India, set-   independent self-regulatory organisation SRO  the Nationai Association  Software and Services Companies NASSCOM,  promote data protection, develop security and privacy best practices and standards and encourage the Indian industry segments  implement the same. DSCI  engaged with the Indian  and BPO industry, their clients worldwide, banking and telecom sectors, industry associations, data protection authorities and other government agencies  different parts  the world.  conducts industry-wide surveys and publishes reports, organises data protection awareness seminars, workshops, projects, interactions and other necessary initiatives for outreach and public advocacy. DSCI  focused  capacity building  law enforcement agencies for combating cyber crimes  the country and towards this,  operates severai cyber labs across India  train police officers, prosecutors and judiciai officers  cyber forensics. Public advocacy, thought leadership, awareness and outreach and capacity building are the key words with which DSCI continues  promote and enhance trust  India   secure globai sourcing hub, and promote data protection  the country. Copyright 2o13 DSCI. Ali rights reserved. Disclaimer This document contains information that  Intellectuai Property  DSCI. DSCI expressly disclaims  the maximum limit permissible  law, ali warranties, express  implied, including, but not limiting  implied warranties  merchantability, fitness for  particular purpose and non-infringement. DSCI disclaims responsibility for any loss, injury, liability  damage  any kind resulting from and arising out  use  this materiai information  part thereof. Views expressed herein are views  DSCI and  its respective authors and should not  construed  legai advice  legai opinion. Further, the generai availability  information  part thereof does not intend  constitute legai advice   create  Lawyer Attorney-Client relationship,  any manner whatsoever. Vinayak Godse Tei: --26155o71 Emaii: vinayak. godse dsci.  Rahui Jain Tei:   26155o7o Emaii: rahui. jain dsci.  Rahui Sharma Tei:   26155o71 Emaii: rahui. sharma dsci.  www. linkedin. com company data-security-councii--india www. twitter. com DSCI_CONNECTwww. facebook. com DSCI. CONNECTYou can connect with  : pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - Month 2o13 NameOfTheReport. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India