Title: pwc_r-and-c-merger-and-acquisition-paper
Date Published: 2013-01-14 16:29:26+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_r-and-c-merger-and-acquisition-paper.pdf
Word Count: 1069
Sentence Count: 110
Average Sentence Length: 15.25

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
need: 13
wili: 13
deals: 11
market: 11
business: 10
value: 10
indian: 9
acquisition: 9
consumer: 8
sector: 8
deai: 8
markets: 8
growth: 8
pwc: 7
process: 7
corporates: 7
also: 7
india: 7
may: 7
due: 6

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

The Indian consumer sector What  the deai? www. pwc.   significant portion  deals faii  the due diligence phase, largely due  misalignment around valuation expectations and businesses not being prepared for  transaction.  our experience between -   deals that  into due diligence  emerging markets faii  complete.  ensure that more deals are converted, preparation  seen   vitai stage  the deai making process. Corporates whether they are buyers  vendors are recognising the need  invest time preparing for  deai, prior  approaching the market.  this paper  focus  the some  the areas corporates  the consumer sector need  consider when preparing for  domestic  overseas acquisition.  also highlight the areas that shareholders and management teams must look  when preparing for  equity divestment  raising funds. . PwC, Leveling the playing field: avoiding the pitfalls  the past when doing deals  emerging markets 2o12 . The   landscape India  fast moving consumer goods FMCG sector witnessed considerable deai activity over the last few years, through  combination  private equity, domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Interest  the sector stems from severai factors such , rising incomes allowing for more discretionary products, growing consumer aspirations  experiment between products, product categories and brands, -trading  some categories . . skincare, entry  new brands etc. Also working  India  favour  the overali consumption forecast for the country and the FMCG segment being relatively unrestricted from  FDI perspective. Financiai investors and corporates have been capitalising  these favourable market dynamics, year after year. Deals have occurred across  range  FMCG segments, particularly food and beverage, personai care and household products. Acquirers are looking  buy brands  under-penetrated categories that have  high growth potentiai and  markets that have not seen high levels  competition. Recent examples  internationai players entering the Indian market include multi-nationals such  Generai Mills and McCormick buying businesses  the food space. Indian players are also venturing outside the country. Notable examples include Godrej  the personai care and household products segment. The company has made acquisitions  South East Asia, Africa and South America part  its 3x3 strategy    leader  home care, personai care and insecticides  Asia, Africa and South America. Similarly, both Wipro and VLCC recently announced acquisitions  South-East Asia;  Waxson and Wyann Internationai respectively. . Key areas  consider when preparing for  acquisition Corporate strategy: Corporates need  ensure that the key objectives for  acquisition are defined - geography, product, size, structure, etc. Ali these areas need   weli thought through before the companies commit  any specific process, let along engage with  potentiai target. Target market:  thorough understanding  the locai environment needs   conducted, such  studying the size  the addressable market, consumer tastes and preferences, sales channels and environment.  notable number  deals perform below expectations due  buyers not understanding the locai market and therefore not handling  business  the correct manner post acquisition. Funding ability: Based  expected deai size, buyers need  have  strong understanding regarding how they propose financing any deai. Demonstrating  ready ability  fund  acquisition wili add significant credibility  the minds  vendors, and  may also  factored into pricing. Funding may  available through severai avenues . . internai accruals, equity, debt and should  considered much before approaching prospective acquisition targets. Valuation discrepancies: Views  value need   clear internally, but stakeholders must also mindfui  the locai operating environment that they are seeking  buy into. With  significant number  deals breaking down due  perceived value differences, acquirers need  have  weli thought out strategy. While price may play  key factor   vendor  finai decision  seli, acquirers need  consider and push other areas  value that they bring  the table   buyer - . .   capabilities, procurement synergies etc. Culturai differences: Indian acquirers need   aware  differences  the culturai nuances  other firms especially overseas, their shareholders and particularly their employees. Being able  appreciate the differences  culture, religion, language, taste wili   long way  achieving  successfui result. Identify the decision maker: While corporates  India are usually controlled  one single decision maker, namely  promoter  promoter family, businesses outside India may have  different management structure. Ensuring you are engaging with the correct individuai  individuals wili  criticai  eventuai deai success. . PwC  Getting  the right side  delta, PwC analysis3. Geographicai nuances2   essentiai that FMCG buyers understand the locai market nuances associated with other territories. Following are the list  challenges presented  different emerging market geographies: Asia: Strong competition from rivai bidders and alternate sources  funds makes valuation one  the key issues for doing deals  Asia. Based  our data, about  deals begin diligence but are aborted because  valuations. Latin America: The regulatory environment  Latin America . . Brazii, particularly for tax and labour,   complex one. There are high taxes and sociai charges  payroli, sales and income. Taxes are diverse and legislation changes fast. Also compliance with corruption laws   issue  many companies, and there may  undisclosed balance sheet transactions and commitments. Eastern Europe: Eastern Europe   some ways becoming closer   developed rather than  growth market. Corruption  businesses related  government contracts  stili  issue  many Eastern European countries, although governments are taking steps   more transparent  their purchasing, for example, using -line auctions. Africa: Government policy  more centrai  deals  Africa. Some countries can change the rules  tax  legai parameters quickly. There   massive deviation  culture and economies within regions. Companies that have failed often have not had thorough understanding  the locai people, business conditions and environment. . Preparing your business for sale  divestment  equity   fundraising process Shareholders  management teams need  invest significant time preparing  business for  seli-side process, not only  increase the chances  completing , but also  maximize value. Three specific areas need   focussed : Demonstrate the strong inherent value  your business: Ensure clear objectives . . value range, funding requirement, equity   divested are set out for the process and ali necessary stakeholders are aligned together Demonstrate  track record  historic growth through robust financials and  narrative outlining the key drivers . . new product development, distribution growth etc. Understand the business strengths,  particular those that wili appeai   investor buyer, and  able  articulate them clearly  interested parties. . . and, Maximise the long term value  the business Prove visibility and achievability  future earnings, thereby giving comfort  investors about how realistic the forecasts are Plan  weli thought through process . . readiness  information, timing  sale, what you want from  investor etc. that leverages investor buyer interest, thereby maximising the competitive tension and ultimately value Allude  new product potentiai pipeline future value drivers and opportunities for the business. . . . While minimising the impact  any potentiai risks Maintain strict confidentiality regarding the process,  the same time  being prepared for any leaks. Concerns  key stakeholders . . employees, customers wili need   efficiently managed  the event   leak Mitigate any tax and regulatory risks that may detract from value during  due diligence stage   deai Consider your business points  difference and how these wili  maintained  future. What makes your business, product, brand stand out from its peers? How wili these strengths  maintained  future? .   outlook for the consumer sector Recent deals show that acquirers can gain significantly from choosing  follow  inorganic growth route. Some  the particular advantages are  follows: Opportunity  gain market share and  footprint  other fast growing countries regions. . . Wipro  acquisition   Waxson wili allow them  begin building  presence  the Chinese consumer market. Access   established and weli invested distribution infrastructure capable  leveraging existing products that wili  adaptable  the new geography. Kraft  acquisition  Cadbury allowed access  Cadbury  pan-India distribution network, the benefits  which are already being seen through the roli-out  legacy Kraft brands such  Oreo. Technology that can  leveraged  develop new products  home territories. . . Godrej recently launched the Aer air freshener brand developed with the help  technology acquired through its acquisition  Megasari  Indonesia.  anticipate that  outbound   continues,   see  increase  the cross-pollination  brands across relevant markets where there  greater congruency  consumers needs and aspirations. Despite the current concerns around the globai economy,   likely that India wili  continue  see   and private equity activity within the FMCG sector, both   domestic and cross-border basis. The fast growing and differentiated Indian FMCG sector wili continue  receive interest from financiai investors, who wili remain focussed  the demand being created  Indian consumers, and western corporates who need  look  emerging markets  meet wider growth aspirations. Further,   likely that established Indian corporates wili continue  seek out acquisitions  overseas markets. While the slow growth and mature profile  western markets  unlikely   appealing, Indian companies are likely  continue  focus  high growth markets such  South-East Asia, Africa, Latin America etc. pwc.  This publication has been prepared for generai guidance  matters  interest only, and does not constitute professionai advice. You should not act upon the information contained  this publication without obtaining specific professionai advice.  representation  warranty express  implied  given   the accuracy  completeness  the information contained  this publication, and,  the extent permitted  law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept  liability, and disclaim ali responsibility, for the consequences  you  anyone else acting,  refraining  act,  reliance  the information contained  this publication  for any decision based  . Without prior permission  PwCPL, this publication may not  quoted  whole   part  otherwise referred   any documents. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  XYZ- January 2o13 The Indian Consumer sector. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India