Title: pwc_coal-mining-icc-report-v2-300613
Date Published: 2013-07-01 15:05:49+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_coal-mining-icc-report-v2-300613.pdf
Word Count: 5160
Sentence Count: 490
Average Sentence Length: 16.7

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
coai: 195
mining: 133
private: 66
sector: 50
india: 47
companies: 43
production: 42
mine: 40
exploration: 34
industry: 33
pwc: 31
development: 31
mines: 30
participation: 27
blocks: 26
new: 24
government: 23
years: 22
investment: 22
tonnes: 21

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  Indian Chamber  Commerce The strategic importance  coai pgo4 The scope for private participation pg13 The road ahead pg23 Coai mining  private participation the answer? Foreword Coai, with  proven reserve  86o billion tonnes  the most mined minerai  the world. Also, the demand curve for this sector  continuously rising. Major factors leading   rise  the demand include the growing power sector  countries such  India and China and rising steei production. Additionally, stringent environment regulations, lead  delay  achieving production targets  match the demand from various sectors dependent  coai. The gap between demand and availability  coai  India  expected  rise every year.  per the 12th Plan, the estimated demand  coai wili rise  98o   2o16- and 1373   2o21- while the supply  domestic coai  expected   795   2o16- and 11o2   2o21-. Today nearly   the country  totai installed power capacity  , , 276   generated using coai. India ranks fourth  coai reserves 286  and  the third largest coai-producing country  the world. Though coai demand has risen  around  over the last four years  2oo6-  2o1o-, production which grew  around  during the same period has not kept  with . The domestic industry can supply only 534.   coai  against the demand  696.     2o11-. Organisations are acquiring mines abroad  order  augment capacity and meet demand. Besides, there  also  urgent need  adopt measures such  rationalisation  coai linkages, dedicated freight corridors  improve the situation, developing skili-sets  mining professionals, promoting under-ground mining and clean coai technologies for sustainable development. Additionai    required  promote coai  liquids CTL, coai bed methane CBM and underground coai gasification UCG. The land acquisition process needs   streamlined.  this context, the Indian Chamber  Commerce  further strengthen its support among industry representatives and policymakers presents the   India Coai Summit   July 2o13  New Delhi. PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd  the knowledge partner  this initiative. This platform wili bring together various stakeholders  discuss, share and evolve suitable strategies and development models. Rajiv Mundhra President Indian Chamber  Commerce  PwC The strategic importance  coalCoai  India  largest commerciai source  primary energy. Policymakers and planners expect coai  continue  dominate  the mainstream energy source for the next severai years. Further, coai has the largest domestic reserve base,  terms  equivalent energy, and the longest resource life compared with other major fuei choices  oii, naturai gas, and uranium. The power sector  the main buyer  coai and accounts for about   ali production  the country.  connects over 166 lakh households while continually increasing coverage under various rurai electrification programmes. Other key buyers are the metallurgicai .  and cement .  sectors, which contribute  infrastructure development. Given this importance  coai  sustained growth,   essentiai  ensure its continued supply  consumers   affordable cost. This appears  have become increasingly difficult  India  observed  import coai   annuai growth rate    order  meet its domestic needs. Position  coai  the primary fuei mix The growing dependence  overseas sources magnifies the risk  domestic consumers  severai externai factors such  changes  laws and taxation  exporting countries, globai spot price movements, and foreign currency exchange rate variations have  impact.  number  recent events underline this issue. The Indonesian coai benchmark price regulation adversely, affected Indian power companies offering stable electricity tariffs  investing  and controlling upstream coai mining activities. The Australian Minerai Resource Rent Tax MRRT levied additionai taxes intended, inter alia,  order  raise new resources for the government. These actions spurred other resource exporting countries  follow suit. Normai market forces were  play too. The sudden growth  demand from emerging economies meant capitai investment  develop new mines, which  turn stressed the supply-chain, increasing operating costs and forcing companies  maintain higher inventories  spares. Ali these factors led   rise  coai prices substantially over the last decade. The growing dependency  imports and rising prices negatively impacts the country  trade balance, the current account deficit CAD, consequently impacting the value  the home currency,  clearly visible with the falling rupee. The need for supply security,  this context, hardly needs  stressed. Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 5India  imports  percentage  consumptionGlobai prices: 2o12 million BTU, USD Percentage price increase over last five yearsPercentage price increase over last  years Oii  .  Dubai  359 LNG  .  Japan CIF 117 292 Thermai coal8 .  North-west Europe marker price  192 Primary fuei sources The alternatives  coai cost analysis are limited. India relies  imports  meet its fuei demand,   much higher degree post the volatility  fuei prices. Even  absolute terms  cost per unit  energy USD per million BTU, coai  more affordable than other fuei sources   wide margin. With the projected shortages and consequent increase  imports, globai prices for internationally traded coai are likely  rise and  imported coai costs,   average,    over Indian domestic coai prices; the net impact  fuei inflation wili  significant and unavoidable.   unavoidable  the status quo  terms  policy and industry structure continues. India can, however, take bold steps  improve locai energy security  reforming the coai sector. Private participation   important element  this reform. Presently, commerciai mining  undertaken  state-owned companies while private sector ownership  coai mining  limited  captive use. However,  many ways, the private sector already has  big presence  the development and operation  coai mines; through contract mining, technicai services, beneficiation, etc. The government needs  consider taking the next step  broaden private sector participation   valid industry participant. Source:  Statisticai Review  World Energy 2o13; Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai Gas Evolution  the coai industry The coai mining industry has  long history, and for most part  ,  has comprised  smali and scattered mines, largely with private players.  1973, the Coai Mines Nationalisation Act was enacted and the coai sector, with the exception   few mines belonging  the Tata Iron and Steei Company now Tata Steei Ltd, DVC and IISCo, was nationalised, bringing them under government ownership. Mining  coai  India commenced Production just over   and remained  that levei tili 19oos Coai production rose  the end  WW1  reach .   Start  the 1st Five Year Plan: production rose    Large number  big and smali coai mines largely privately -owned: Production    Nationalisation  coking coai mining blocks Nationalisation  non-coking coai mining blocks 1774 19191951197os End  196osPrimary fuei sources  PwCThe coai industry, after the 1973 Act, was reorganised into two large public sector companies, Coai India Limited CIL which owned and managed ali previously government-owned mines  the Nationai Coai Development Corporation and the nationalised private mines, and the Singareni Colliery Company Limited SCCL which was owned and managed  the government  Andhra Pradesh. The 1973 Act, amended  1976, terminated mining leases  private companies  ali coai-bearing regions with the exception  allowing captive mining  private companies involved  the production  iron and steei.  1993, the Act was further amended  allow captive coai mining  the private sector for power generation, washing  coai, and such other end-uses   notified  the centrai government from time  time. Others: Others include Tata Steei earlier TISCO, IISCO, DVC, private, captive mines Source: Ministry  Coai, CIL, SCCL The coai industry grew strongly after nationalisation, and between 198o and 2o1o, the state-owned coai companies led   four-fold increase  production.  recent years, however, production growth slowed down forcing discussion  structurai changes  boost production and productivity.  this coincided with  demand upswing, deficits have hurt harder than otherwise. This spurred the government  take steps towards deregulation for enhancing production. More recently, the MMDR Act, 1957 was amended  permit auctioning coai blocks through competitive bidding. Fourteen blocks for power and three for mining have been put  for auction recently under the government dispensation route and allocation  these under competitive bidding  soon   completed. Further, the government has proposed  offer seven open cast mines  about  million tonnes capacity  mine developer-cum-operators MDOs  this year-end  order  increase coai production for various end-uses. The government also proposed  amend the Coai Mines Nationalisation Act, 1973  allow Indian companies, either public  private sector  undertake coai mining without the restriction  captive use. However, the Coai Mines Nationalisation Amendment Bili, 2ooo did not progress, and instead  slow and graduai process  private sector involvement over the years was witnessed. India: Coai production over the years Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 7Globai trends  the mining industry The policy, organisation, and industry structure  the mining sector has seen dramatic changes  recent years   sought  take advantage   globalising world economy  investing, growing  scale and reaching new buyers and partners. Governments enacted  wide range  measures, for improving sustainability and safety, attracting investments and improving trade balances. The naturai resources   country are considered nationai assets and the benefits generated from  need  positively benefit citizens. For this  happen, however, the resources must  successfully explored, mines need   developed, and the output has   competitively produced.  requires expertise  modern exploration technologies, high capacity equipment, mining methods and planning skills that can develop  efficient plan and successfui execution. Private participation and foreign investment are thus centrai for the efficient development  the industry, creating  climate  positive wealth for the nation.  number  countries have taken steps  reform and open their mining industry  private and overseas investments. The actions are not  much  privatise the existing industry, but  significantly promote the green-field activity  attracting new talent and investments.   result,  see new private companies grow along with state-owned companies.  fact,  many jurisdictions  see joint venture arrangements between public and private sector companies where the combined forces  state support and upside  mine development, either  the form  equity share  production share are beneficiai  both players. Country Coai production  Thermai coai exports  Thermai coai exports  percentage  productionTotai coai exports  Totai coai exports   percentage  production Indonesia 386 315  338  Australia 431 159  3o3  Russia 355 1o8  12o  USA 922   1o7  Columbia      South Africa 26o     Canada      Source: AME,  Statisticai Review  World Energy - 2o13In case  resource exporting countries, taxation  the form  royalty and income tax  another important aspect  monetising resources. This can backfire too,  extracting higher rents wili cause buyers and investor  withdraw, and countries with export-oriented mining industries tend  have policies that attract new investments and extract higher rents. Coai exporting countries and production  PwCSouth Africa South Africa has the world  fifth largest mining sector, with totai reserves valued  .  trillion USD. Mining   key industry accounting for   its GDP, and key minerals mined are gold, platinum, diamond, uranium, chromium, manganese, iron ore, copper and coai.  key challenge for the country was  improve the sociai and economic equality within.  the mining sector, the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act  2oo2 inter alia, aimed  facilitate this. Foreign ownership  minerai assets  subject  the requirement   least  equity being transferred  the specified locai population.  offset  available against the value  beneficiation    limit  . Indonesia Indonesia  one  the world  largest exporters  thermai coai, besides producing copper, gold, tin and nickei. Its mining industry accounts for   GDP, and  also  large consumer given the sizeable population.  recent years,  enacted  number  measures  licensing, ownership, domestic market obligation, transfer pricing, etc. Indonesia enacted  new mining law  2oo9.  key step was  overhaui its licensing system, replacing the CoW, CCoW system for foreign investors and the  permit system with three categories  mining licences. Further, the licences are issued for two phases  the mining lifecycle,  exploration IUP and  commerciai discovery and entering into production  operation,  production IUP. The Law  Minerai and Coai Mining    2oo9 requires foreign shareholders  divest   phased manner  locai entities such  the centrai government, Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 9provinciai government  regionai  municipai government,  state-owned company   nationai private business entity. The phasing starts from  ownership   divested after six years  production,   divestment after  years  production. The legislation also provides  framework for domestic market obligation DMO  meet growing locai demand, especially for coai.  gives the centrai government authority  controi production and export  mining products, and regionai governments must comply with such export controls. Tax incentives broadly comprise   investment credit, accelerated depreciation, reduced withholding taxes  dividends; and  increased loss carry-forward period from five years   maximum   years. Mongolia The mining sector  important  Mongolia  economy, accounting for   its GDP. The major minerals produced are coai, copper, gold, rare earths, molybdenum, iron ore and uranium. The legai framework for the mining sector   evolution.  permits 1oo FDI but imposes controls  minerals  strategic importance . , those which have potentiai  produce over   annuai GDP. For such minerals,  takes ownership position   where  has conducted exploration   where reserves determination was not through state support. The actuai proportion   per agreement and determined the conditions and levei  investment. The country   signatory  the Seoui Convention  Investment  PwCInsurance 1985, joined 1999 and   member  the Multilaterai Investment Guarantee Agency MIGA since 1999.  has bilaterai agreements with severai countries for investment protection avoidance  double taxation, including India.  foreign investor can apply for  stability agreement, providing stable tax conditions for  given term.  investment     million USD  the first five years  the project provides stability for  -year term, and  3oo million USD investment provide stability for  -year term.  support new development, exploration costs are allowed   capitalised and amortised   straight line basis over the first five years  production, and the cost  licence acquisition amortised over the life  the licence. Russia Russia  the world  sixth largest coai producer with  output  355 million tonnes. Post its transition from the Soviet era,  undertook  restructuring and privatisation programme, and now over   coai production comes from private producers. Foreign investment  generally allowed, but investors acquiring controi  over   strategic minerals uranium, diamonds, nickei, cobalt, etc must obtain prior approvai.  coai mining, the extent  foreign participation remains low, with FDI representing just   totai investments 2o1o. Brazii Brazii  one  the world  mining giants and its minerai output represents   its GDP. Its major minerai exports are iron ore, niobium, copper and gold. The industry  composed  largely domestic private companies, though many have foreign shareholders. The law requires mining companies involved  exploration  take authorisation  concession from the federai government. Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 11Brazii does not offer any speciai tax benefits  tax holidays  mining companies. But they may use generai tax incentives available for investors  poorer states such   the northeast region SUDENE  the Amazon area SUDAM. Companies incorporated there  priority activities can secure lower income taxes    . Canada Canada   leading producer   wide range  minerals such  metallurgicai coai, potash, gold, iron, steei, lead, nickei, aluminum, copper, uranium and zinc. The country continues  attract green-field investment through  variety  measures.  investment tax credit ITC    offered for the exploration and mine development for select minerals. Companies can also avaii ITC for other activities such  for qualified research, exploration  new minerals, for investment  speciai regions and provinces, and for mode  investment individuals investing  flow-through shares. Australia Australia   leading globai producer  severai key minerals, and  mining technologies and services. The mining sector  among its oldest industries and accounts for   its GDP. The major minerals are iron ore, metallurgicai and thermai coai, aluminium, copper, gold, nickei and uranium. Given its federai nature, mining activities are largely regulated  the six states which have their own laws. The nationai government introduced the MRRT, applicable  coai and iron ore projects, besides the familiar pay-outs such   royalties and income tax. The MRRT   form  economic rent  profits from mining activity . . , before they undergo any significant value-addition.  PwCTaxation and royalties The mining industry bears  significant tax burden  the form  royalties and cess, income taxes, super-profit levies, and production sharing  free-equity provisions  mining concessions. Governments use these avenues for monetising naturai resources for public benefit, and create  scope for policy direction through tax exemptions.   federai structure, the royalty regime   key tooi  controi and benefit-sharing between the federai and state governments. Most mining jurisdictions have now moved royalties from  flat royalty  -valorem . . , based  the sale value.  some countries, royalties are based  actuai profit, such   South Africa which uses the company  earnings before interest and tax   base, with provision  increased tax rates for higher profitability. Country Coai royalty rate AustraliaQueensland Average price per tonne for period AUD -1oo 1oo-15o 15o for first 1oo AUD    for next  AUD .  .  for balance  Western Australia One AUD per ton,   adjusted each year   June  accordance with the percentage increase  the average -mine value  Collie coai for the year ending  that date when compared with the corresponding value  Collie coai for the year ending   June 1981 Exported: .  South Australia   the value  the minerai New South Wales .   value  open cut coai .   value  underground coai .   value  deep underground coai India  -valorem  price  coai except West Bengai Indonesia .  -valorem USA Federai coai surface mining: .   gross value  coai produced underground mining:   gross value  coai produced South Africa . - Ghana  Columbia  exploitation  MTPA  exploitation  MTPA Based  the value  production  the mouth  border  the mine totai sales less transportation and other costs associated with marketing Taxation and royalty rates for coai Source: PwC Taxation and Royalty Guide, government data Coai mining:  private participation the answer?  The scope for private participation The growth  the coai sector has  far been led  state-owned companies. The change  industry structure has been driven   number  factors, such  the need  meet increased demand, bring  new technologies and modern mining methods  improve productivity and sustainability  operations, financing new development, and  bring corporate capabilities  exploration and operations. Competition from new players and the profit incentive wili help spur better performance and lower costs. Private participation currently exists   number  different forms, such  services from contract mining  MDO, allocation and development  captive coai blocks and joint ventures for exploration. Captive coai blocks Captive mining for the private sector was first permitted  1976 for the steei sector, extended  the power sector and coai washing  1993, and further extended  the cement sector  1996.  the totai 218 coai blocks allocated, 1o6 coai blocks were allotted  private companies across these sectors. The allocation  coai blocks was based, among others,  the end-use sector requirements, and the developers technicai capabilities and readiness  establishing end-use projects,  ensure that such projects are completed. Despite this, many projects did not progress and severai coai blocks have since been -allocated. The net allocation now stands  176, with geologicai reserves  about  billion tonnes.  this, the private sector involvement   .  billion tonnes. The allocation process itself has paused with only two coai blocks allotted  the period 2o1o  2o13. Coai block allocation  sector Sector Government companiesPrivate companiesUMPPs and tariff based biddingTotai number  coai blocks Power     Commerciai mining  - -  Iron and steei   -  Cement -  -  Smali and isolated -  -  CTL coai  liquid -  -  Totai 1oo 1o6  218 Source: Ministry  Coai  PwCThe guidelines require captive blocks  commence production within  months for open-cast mines and  months for underground mines from the date  issuing the letter  allocation. Further,  additionai  months lead time  permitted for unexplored and regionally-explored captive blocks. Further, six months lead time  provided for forest clearance, although practicai experience indicates that this has taken over four years   average. Production from captive coai blocks Million tonnes 2oo7- 2oo8- 2oo9- 2o1o- 2o11- Allotted  the public sector    .   Allotted  private companies    .   Totai     37Production from captive coai blocks Source: Coai Statistics 2o11-, CCO YearTarget  achievementPower Iron and steei Govt comm Private comm and cements   Coai BlocksProduction million tonnes .  coai blocksProduction million tonnes   Coai BlocksProduction million tonnes   Coai BlocksProduction million tonnes 2oo7-o8Target  .   .   .   .  Achievement  .   .   .   .  2oo8-o9Target  .   .   .   .  Achievement  .   .   .   .  2oo9-1oTarget  .   .   .   .  Achievement  .   .   .   .  2o1o-11Target   .   .   .   .  Target    .   .   .   .  Achievement  .   .   .   .  2o11-12Target   .   .   .   .  Target    .   .   .   .  Achievement  .   .   .   . 3oTarget achievement from Captive Coai Blocks:  Sector Source: Provisionai Coai Statistics, 2o11-, CCO KolkataThe delays  development  captive blocks are for many reasons, both, externai . . delays  consents and approvals  the locai levei and  various agencies, land acquisition, time needed for geologicai studies and mine planning and internai . . limited past experience  developers, project management capacity, coordination between multiple allottees and but this initiative    early stage and can deliver better results  the impediments are addressed.   reported  the Coai Controller  Organisation CCO that  the allocated coai blocks,  have started production  2o12, and this comprises  blocks that were allotted  state-owned companies and   the private sector. Production from the captive coai blocks was  million tonnes against the targeted 1o4 million tonnes for 2o11-. Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 15Source: Provisionai Coai Statistics, 2o11-, CCO KolkataExploration Significant steps have been taken towards coai exploration, with   planned area covered under detailed exploration during the 11th Plan period, establishing  billion tonnes  new reserves.  lot more remains   achieved. The Working Group report indicates that 4226   area representing   coai bearing area  yet   covered  regionai exploration. Further, the drilling target for the 12th Plan  set  .  lakh meters against .  lakh meters achieved over the 11th Plan. This reflect the emphasis placed  the government  exploration, which  necessary  establish the reserves, minimise the development costs, and enable development  mines  multiple agencies including the private sector. This , however, dependent  the surge  exploration activity.   stands,  sizeable gap exists between the current technicai Coai exploration: Plan and achievement Area coverage   Resources established  Projected drilling lakh Meter Projected drilling  the  thPlan million meter Targets achieved for coai explorationPlan Actuai achievedPlan Actuai achieved Plan Actuai achieved Regionai 758 998 132 .  .   .  .   .  Promotionai 1717 1586   .  1oo  .   .  Detailed CIL 4o9 717 175 .  .    .  226 .  SCCL 166 116  .  .   .  .   .  Others 1225 788  .  .   .  .   .  Totai 18oo 1621  .  .   .  .   . 45support system and what  needed  achieve the 12th Plan targets. The gap may  bridged  strengthening existing agencies  outsourcing some  the roles  the private sector. Besides planned exploration,  may  noted that 265 coai blocks  blocks belong  Coai India, and the balance 187 are for captive allocation stili need detailed exploration.  these 265 coai blocks,  have been identified for undertaking exploration during the 12th Plan based  the results  the Regionai and Detailed Exploration undertaken during the 11th Plan. Early actions  these blocks,  weli  outsourcing the detailed exploration for remaining captive coai blocks wili help improve the quality  geologicai information available and permit competitive auctions and private sector participation with lesser risks  failure, and permit better returns  the treasury.  PwCSourcing technology The government and the relevant nationai agencies have signed technicai collaboration agreements for acquiring new tools and technologies for exploration, mine modernisation and operation  specialised conditions, and improving ore recovery. The collaborations already initiated are  specialised technologies such  South Africa Germany USA Russia Japan Australia Geophysicai exploration and  Seismic survey   CBM, CMM, AMM, VAM, UCG      Deep shaft for coai mines   Mechanisation   mines   Thick seam and steep seam mining   Mining technology services  Clean coai tech, and coai preparation    Training related  safety YInternationai technicai collaborations Source: Coai Statistics 2o11-, CCOas geo-physicai exploration, deep shaft-sinking, coai bed methane, and steep seam mining. Recently, Coai India has invited proposals from internationai players for advisory services for modernising mines. The emphasis  coai mining companies  upgrading technology   positive signai and wili strengthen the long-term fundamentals. Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 17Commerciai bank lending  mining sectorCoai washeries Given the long distance over which coai  transported  India, and the relatively poor quality, use  coai washeries  desirable and mandatory for use beyond the 5oo  mine site.  number  companies have established washeries about  private companies have set   units with  capacity   million tonnes per annum. Coai India has established  washeries under its subsidiaries, with  capacity   million tonnes  coai per annum. The private sector has  dominant position  washery capacity and   outcome  active policy push. There  need  establish further coai beneficiation capacity  the present facilities cover barely one-sixth  the annuai coai production 532 million tonne. Coai India has expressed interest  establishing  washeries with  totai capacity  123 million tonnes per annum. Source: Reserve Bank  IndiaContract mining The recourse  contract mining has increased  the recent years, and  has also considerably evolved  scope. Historically,  was seen  outsourcing the overburden removai and logistics activities.  recent years, the modei evolved  reflect  more detailed responsibility allocation and risk sharing mechanism that allowed outsourcing  companies the tasks they were better placed  manage and mitigate risks. This outsourcing was also necessary  many end-user companies engaged  power generation  steei and cement making had  prior experience  coai mining. This gave rise  the mine developer cum operator MDO modei,  extended form  services contract with responsibilities for development activities such  securing consents and developing access, acquiring land, mine plan, and conservation, with specificities varying from case  case. MDO contracts awarded  date are estimated  16o MTPA managing geologicai reserves  about .  billion tonnes.  continues  offer  strong opportunity for private participation  mining, with upcoming tenders estimated   MTPA with geologicai reserves  .  billion tonnes. Billion INR Percentage credit  industries  PwCSecuring financing Mining   capitai intensive business, requiring  periodic renewai  major heavy earth moving equipments  order  maintain the levei  output. The proposed outlay for the 12th Plan for state-owned coai companies  343 billion INR which  supported  domestic allocation  .  billion INR. This  undersized  .  compared with the scale  globai investments  coai mining. Globally,  per PwC analysis  the top  mining companies, mining companies spent 14o billion USD  capitai projects 2o12,  which the spend  coai sector was about . The globai mining companies took advantage  credit availability  leverage their balance sheets, adding 1o8 billion USD  debt financing.  India, commerciai bank lending  the mining sector has been modest with 325 billion INR  outstanding loans, which  .   gross bank credit  ali industries. FDI  allowed   1oo for setting  power projects and coai mines for captive consumption. FDI   company for setting   coai processing plant  also allowed provided the company does not undertake coai mining, and does not seli washed  sized coai from the coai processing plant but sends  back  the respective parties from which sourced. Similarly, companies engaged  exploration  mining  coai and lignite for captive use  steei  cement production are permitted 1oo FDI. India has seen limited FDI  mining sector given the state  the industry and slow pace  reform and private participation. Over the period 2ooo-2o13 the FDI equity inflow into the mining sector has been barely 998 million USD 4636 crore INR, representing just .   the totai FDI inflows into the country. Source: Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion, Government  IndiaCommon business models The industry structure  coai mining  dominated  state-owned companies and integrated metals and mining companies that source resources for end-use. The new entrants, namely captive block owners, SMDCs, and merchant plants display  variety  business models. FDI  mining  India FDI  mining Mining  percentage  totai FDI Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 19Self-mining modei This approach may  adopted  companies with large mining portfolios  expectations  building one, and seeking  develop -house capacity  extract the best value from across the value-chain. Financing: The mine owner undertakes ali mining activities -house,   use  rate contracts such  for overburden removai, drilling, blasting, development  raise  the mines, and transportation. The mine owner retains ali rights and obligations  the block, financing ali capitai investments, and operations and maintenance. Technology: The mine owner acquires the capabilities and expertise  develop the mine, including hiring skilled staff  contracting operators, buying  leasing equipment, setting  workshops, etc. Incentives: The mine owner has fuli controi  the asset and operations and  owns  ali risks and rewards from the business. Self-mining modei MDO modei Equity investmentsCoai mining dept. End use Contract minerMine owner Mine owner Coai mine Coai mineOwner builds  mining department  operate the mine and supply coai  end-usersMining services provided  contractorLegai binding contractMining lease executed  contractorCoai supplied  end-userMine developer cum operator MDO modei The MDO modei,  contract mining,  popular  many countries and even established mining companies often use .  India, mine owners rely    bring mining expertise they lack,  improve productivity,  simply finance the mine development. Financing: The MDO finances the mine start-  costs thus freeing  the mine owner  build end-use plant.   relies   service contract, this financing  risky and comes   price. Technology: The contractor brings strong mine planning and operations expertise.  may leverage its own equipment  procure   bulk, driving down costs. Incentives:  good MDO modei, with proper allocation  risks and rewards, incentivises both parties  play their respective strengths  enhance value and profits. The mine and end-use plants develop  parallei bringing the project  commence faster. The MDO  contract mining modei  seen  many countries, such  India, Australia, Indonesia, etc, resulting  the development  many specialised companies. . The Australian Mining Equipment and Technology Services METS sector  estimated   worth over  billion USD with 16o members exporting goods and services  over 1oo countries.   not uncommon  see even globai mining majors outsource their mine development  operations  contract mining companies,   frees them from having  maintain expensive equipment, inventories, and trained staff   industry that  cyclicai and   market that  subject  demand swings.  PwCJoint venture  modei  alternate  the MDO modei, where development  contracted out,  formation   joint venture with  specialised mining company. The mine owner forms   company with  mining partner  undertake the mine development and operations. While this offers the mine owner potentially better economics,  also burdens  with organisationai matters such  creating the company, signing  shareholders agreement setting out rights, roles and obligations, management and oversight responsibilities, etc.  becomes more complex  the two parties are from different countries. Financing: The capitai investment for coai mine   the  company,  turn contributed  the partners  per the shareholders agreement.   variant, the end-use plant can also  included  the ambit  the  company. Equity investmentsContract miner Mine owner Coai mineMine development and operationsCoai Fuei supply agreement Technology: The mining partner brings  the technicai expertise, skills, and potentially equipment. The  company designs and operates the mine, and supplies   the designated end-use plant  agreed terms that offer  production incentives and subject   performance guarantees. Incentives: Both the parties evenly benefit from the performance  the  company, unless side agreements are drawn , such  payment for technicai services  for managing activities outside the company. The mine owner typically faces the licensing requirements and may have  maintain  oversight responsibility besides that  joint management.  short, the controi and incentive structure  likely   more complex.  modei Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 21Contract miner Mine owner Coai mineAli investments and mining services provided  contractorPayments  coai and equity investmentsCoai supplied  end-userPPP modelPublic private partnership PPP modei The government has proposed  PPP modei  the recent budget,  enhance coai production. The modei  expected   wider  scope than the prevalent MDO models, with the private sector potentially taking  greater development roles,  able  raise project finance, and operate for  longer term. The details are yet  emerge, but  can see  arrangement where the private partner wili  the mine owner  ali aspects, but for any ownership rights  the asset  the produce.  may adopt  DBFOT design, build, finance, operate and transfer modei, and the extended roles imposed   may include tasks such  preparing the environmentai management plan EMP undertaking progressive mine closure and reclamation  affected land. The contours  the PPP modei are yet   seen, but the following   likely option: Financing: The mine development start- costs wili  borne  the private partner. The public buyer may pay this through contracted per tonne charge. For challenging mines, the payment may  divided into two parts, with the development costs repaid   lump sum  annuai basis subject  plant availability. Technology: The private partner undertakes planning, development, and operation  the coai mine   manner that  delivers contracted output  terms  quantity, quality, location, and timing. Incentives: The PPP contract terms can  designed  severai ways  that the private partner  compensated for non- controllable costs, but suffers  gains from variation  controllable parameters against the set benchmarks.  PwCA number  countries that are deregulating their mining sector, such  Myanmar, Philippines, Ghana, are adopting the PPP modei.  mature mining countries too,  wide range  PPP models exist besides the fully privatized operations. Self mining  MDO PPP Fuli controi over mining operation Tax efficient Cost savings are  the benefit  the owner Leverages the coai mining partner  skills, capabilities, and capitai for investment Has some controi over mining operations via its equity stake Benefits from the coai contractor technicai, financiai, and people capabilities releasing   focus  other areas Controi over mining operations can  tailored  suit its expectation Flexibility  change mining contractors over time Benefits from private partner  capabilities, and can bring capitai   lower cost Risks  mining operations  borne  the private player, who retains some controi  mining operations Performance based pay drives efficiency and productivity Must fund ali capitai, people, and learning costs and implement the project  own Faces 1oo  the risk  the sole owner Limited flexibility  even  technology  market changes Limited flexibility  change coai mining partner over time  the mine develops Possibility  conflict  interest between the  partners within the company  outside Scope for insufficient controi over mining operations Financing can  relatively costlier Private players bring larger investment but may lack equai upside Government retains major controi through both contractuai and regulatory means Comparison  various models for private participation Coai mining:  private participation the answer?  The road aheadThe strategic rationale  discussed  earlier sections, coai  relatively cheaper  relation  other primary commerciai energy sources, but has seen its prices increase significantly over the last decade.  the same time, locai shortages have caused greater reliance  imports. The resulting impact can  seen  the graph alongside, showing higher import intensity and higher relative prices  coai. The deterioration appears very smali, but  misleading see Graph.  the actuai prices and not relative  taken, and economic growth picks , resulting  higher demand locally and higher prices globally,  wili see  stronger deterioration  import intensity and prices. This situation can  avoided  locai coai production can  increased without slipping  the cost advantage  has over imported coai. Import intensity  Relative price Source:  Statisticai Review  World Energy 2o13; Ministry  Petroleum and Naturai GasRelative Price . .  thermai coai price  2o12  PwCEnhancing coai production The forecasts  demand and supply  coai over the next five years suggest India experiencing significant and persistent shortages. The reality  more complex with demand softening due  slowdown  economic growth and infrastructure activity, and utilities purchasing less  account  poor financiai position. The supply too,  impacted  slow progress  captive coai block development.  any situation, there   generai consensus that India wili face higher coai shortages  the coming years and that  wili  met  imports. The challenge  that the forecast deficits are quite sizable vis--vis the globai sea-borne trade  steam coai about   2o17 and such large quantity  import wili significantly push  spot prices, and thus the delivered cost. Given the slow pace  development  nuclear plants and with naturai gas suffering shortages and high prices, there are few options than  enhance locai coai production. The domestic coai sector,  discussed earlier, faces many impediments  increasing output, which need   resolved. The sector needs further deregulation  attract private players   more serious manner  bridge the existing deficit. The outlook, indicating coai wili remain the dominant primary energy source perhaps even rising  share, and the supply side limitations suggest that India needs both,  strong nationai champion and  more robust private sector participation  the mining sector. Demand supply gap Gap met  import Coai demand Coai supply-locai Source: Annuai reports, Ministry  Coai Projected figures Coai mining:  private participation the answer? 25Modernisation and productivity improvement The challenge  not that  increasing production alone, but doing    efficient manner  keep costs  controi, and ensure that sustainability and safety  the mines  not compromised. The Indian coai industry  fact has significant scope for modernisation and productivity improvement, which should improve performances  recovery rate and operating costs. This can  achieved  attracting internationai and domestic companies  invest  the mining sector, and providing  framework for recovery  such efforts and investments. The investments can   modern mining methods, higher rated equipment, better conservation and recovery methods, competitive financing, and  information technology and project management. The accompanying graph shows  comparative analysis  productivity  coai companies, where India fares low despite having  higher proportion  open-cast mines.   fair, there has been  improvement  the scale  projects and rating  equipment used, over the years. CIL  pursuing the Magadh project Centrai Collieries Ltd with capacity   MTPA and  considering the Kusmunda project South Eastern Coalfields Ltd with capacity   MTPA. Globai mining companies can bring further expertise, tools and equipment, and practices which can help augment India  coai production   cost-effective manner. Productivity  coai companies thousand tonne per employee Source: CIL, PwC analysis  PwCFurther reform and deregulation The present industry structure  hemmed    number  regulations and the legislative framework  very restrictive for proper development  the coai sector. There   serious need  reform and deregulate the coai sector. The challenges and options can  presented   consultative paper for broader discussion and securing broader consent. The licensing process needs   improved  attract technically and financially strong players  the globai coai mining industry. The mine owners should  able  directly monetise the upside  their performance  allowing  certain proportion  free trade  the manner  -auction run  CIL today  the domestic market. The price pressure  this wili  minimai  the larger output remains either regulated  per principles that the regulator may specify  discovered   competitive auction. These reforms wili need legislative amendments  permit direct ownership and third-party trading within the country. Incentivising exploration activities The Geologicai Survey  India estimates that our totai coai reserves and resources are about 293 billion tonnes.  this, about   118 billion tonnes  under the proved category, leaving 175 billion tonnes  indicated and inferred resource category. Reconnaissance and exploration   specialised activity, India  spend    the lowest among the major mining economies  seen  graph below. Further, our exploration efforts are largely limited  the depth    1oo meters  against say 3oo meters  Australia.  fact,  number  countries are actively offering incentives for scientific exploration. For example, Chile incentivises exploration  relaxing criteria for unified exploration and mining rights. Canada offers mining companies tax credit for qualified exploration expense they have incurred. These tax credits recover themselves very easily  exploration boosts new growth and production, bringing  royalty and tax payments. Conclusion The role  coai mining has   reassessed, and given  greater prominence,  light  the higher costs and diminishing security  other primary fuels. Coai reserves have  finite life, and  the mine planning, operation, and beneficiation should    efficient and sustainable manner. This needs investments  technology and modernisation  the existing strategies and frameworks. There   strong case  enhance private participation and foreign investment  coai mining  support new exploration activity, improve productivity and recovery  mines, and ensure their sustainable development. Absolute investment  exploration INR per   Source: Strategy Paper for the Ministry  Mines, November 2o11 www. pwc.  Asia Schooi  Mine  are delighted  announce PwC  Asia Schooi  Mines 2o13,  event that wili provide mining executives and stakeholders  dynamic platform for discussing the latest developments  the industry. Against the globai economic challenges,   worth recognising the shift  mining industry  Asia; for the first time ever, half  the top  miners are from emerging countries including countries from Asia. Growth opportunities abound for those savvy enough  make the most  present market conditions. According  the 2o12 estimates, the Asian mining companies have lesser debt, have substantiai cash reserves, and contributed significantly  the capitai expenditure globally. Initiatives relating  performance improvement  the mining chain and processes are fast emerging   industry focai point. How weli they use this position  meet their growing commodity needs  the next big question. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. The dynamic state  the industry presents countless opportunities for mining companies  grow. However  host  challenges for management and execution are also peculiar  the region. The Asia Schooi  Mines presents  opportunity  learn  the latest developments  the mining industry while connecting with mining executives and PwC specialists from around the globe.  would like  invite you for participating  the PwC' Asia Schooi  Mines 2o13   and  December 2o13.  hope  have concrete discussions   few issues outlined below: Enhancing resource security Mining deals Contract mining Financing projects Reporting and taxation  whatever your experience and interests, tailor the programme  suit your goals.  look forward  your active participation. Event details Date: - December 2o13Place: Delhi, India Enquiries Piyush Kumar BhartiTei:  96424 1o222Emaii: piyush. bharti . pwc. com Pukhraj Sethiya Tei:  99896 oo236Emaii: pukhraj. sethiya . pwc. com Dilip Kumar Jena Tei:  9866o 19865Emaii: dilipkumar. jena . pwc. com Notes About ICC Founded  1925, Indian Chamber  Commerce ICC  the leading and only Nationai Chamber  Commerce operating from Kolkata, and one  the most pro-active and forward-looking chambers  the country today. Its membership spans some  the most prominent and major industriai groups  India. ICC  the founder member  FICCI, the apex body  business and industry  India. ICC  forte  its ability  anticipate the needs  the future, respond  challenges, and prepare the stakeholders  the economy  benefit from these changes and opportunities. Set    group  pioneering industrialists led    Birla, the Indian Chamber  Commerce was closely associated with the Indian Freedom Movement,  the first organised voice  indigenous Indian Industry. Severai  the distinguished industry leaders  India, such    Birla, Sir Ardeshir Dalai, Sir Badridas Goenka,   Jain, Lala Karam Chand Thapar, Russi Mody, Ashok Jain, Sanjiv Goenka, have led the ICC  its President. Currently, Rajiv Mundhra  leading the Chamber  its President. ICC  the only Chamber from India  win the first prize  World Chambers Competition  Quebec, Canada. ICC  North-East Initiative has gained  new momentum and dynamism over the last few years, and the Chamber has been hugely successfui  spreading awareness about the great economic potentiai  the North-East  nationai and internationai levels. Trade and investment shows  north-east  countries like Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam have created new vistas  economic -operation between the North-East  India and South-East Asia. ICC has  speciai focus upon India  trade and commerce relations with South and South-East Asian nations,  sync with India  Look East Policy, and has played  key role  building synergies between India and her Asian neighbours like Singapore, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Bhutan through trade and business delegation exchanges, and large investment summits. ICC also has  strong focus  economic research and policy issues.  regularly undertakes macro-economic surveys, studies, prepares state investment climate reports and sector reports, provides necessary policy inputs and budget recommendations  governments  state and centrai levels. The Indian Chamber  Commerce headquartered  Kolkata, over the last few years has truly emerged   nationai Chamber  repute, with fuli-fledged offices  New Delhi, Guwahati, Bhubaneshwar and Patna functioning efficiently, and building meaningfui synergies among Industry and Government  addressing strategic issues  nationai significance. Contacts Indian Chamber  Commerce, Head Office  Rajeev SinghDirector Generai-ICC,  India Exchange Place, Kolkata 7oo oo1Tei: o33 223o3242Fax: o33 2231 338o, 3377Emaii: ceo indianchamber. netWebsite: www. indianchamber. net Indian Chamber  Commerce, New Delhi Office -118, 1st Floor, Aashirwad Complex, Green Park Main, New Delhi 11oo16Tei: o11 461o 1431 , 461o 1439 Fax: o11 461o 144o, 1441Emaii: energy indianchamber. netWebsite: www. indianchamber. net Indian Chamber  Commerce, Bhubaneswar Office -East Ashok Nagar, Bhubaneswar, OrissaTei:  674 2532744Emaii: . orissa indianchamber. netWebsite: www. indianchamber. net Indian Chamber  Commerce, Guwahati Office House . 2o9, 2nd Floor Opp Overtnite Express, Near AIDCR  Barua Road, Guwahati 24Tei: o361 246o216, 2464767Fax: o361 2461763Emaii: iccner indianchamber. netWebsite: www. indianchamber. net Indian Chamber  Commerce, Bihar Office  , Dumri House, Kavi Raman Path, East Boring Road, Patna - 8oooo1, BiharTei: o612 65oo357Fax: o612 2533636Emaii: . patna indianchamber. netWebsite: www. indianchamber. net Contacts Kameswara Rao Executive Director and Leader, Energy, Utilities and Mining Tei:   6624 6688 Emaii: kameswara. rao . pwc. com Sambitosh Mohapatra Executive Director Tei:  124 33o6515Emaii: sambitosh. mohapatra . pwc. com Yogesh Daruka Director Tei:   44o4 4191Emaii: yogesh. daruka . pwc. com Pukhraj Sethiya Manager Mining Mobile:  99896oo236Emaii: pukhraj. sethiya . pwc. com Key contributors Pukhraj SethiyaPiyush BhartiDilip Kumar JenaBhavesh SinghaviUmesh VadhvaSupreet SrinivasPallav BaglaAbhishek KakarAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - June 2o13 Coai mining:  private participation the answer? . indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India