Title: pwc_dissecting-indias-risk-equity-premium
Date Published: 2013-07-08 10:37:58+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_dissecting-indias-risk-equity-premium.pdf
Word Count: 2112
Sentence Count: 226
Average Sentence Length: 15.54

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
growth: 72
gdp: 42
risk: 33
market: 32
rate: 30
equity: 27
erp: 27
expected: 26
premium: 25
fcfe: 25
india: 23
inflation: 23
earnings: 21
yield: 17
pwc: 17
historicai: 16
method: 15
sensex: 15
reai: 14
returns: 13

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Dissecting India  Equity Risk Premium How much  expect  your equity investments Authored  Vishnu Giri, assisted  Sireesha Sivala Under the guidance  Rajan Wadhawan and Rohit Bhasin  PwCBrealey Myers  Principles  Corporate Finance defines equity risk premium ERP  the difference between the returns expected  the market and the interest rate  treasury bills. The ERP may  viewed  risk compensation for investing  equity markets  against assets that are relatively risk-free. ERP has numerous applications: valuation  companies, capitai budgeting and even economic policymaking. Severai papers have attempted  determine the ERP for developed markets, notably the . The most widely used method for determining ERP  the historicai method, which  based  the fundamentai hypothesis that excess returns earned  the past serve   reasonable parameter for excess returns that can  expected  the future. While the historicai method may work reasonably weli for developed markets like the  with  fairly long history, the same approach  likely  yield dissatisfactory results for emerging markets like India, with relatively short and volatile equity market histories. This paper attempts  evaluate the ERP for India1 through alternate methods. ERP parameters  definition, the ERP  the difference between the expected return  the market and the risk free rate. Hence,   important  first define the following: The market The risk-free rate The market Selection   index   proxy for the equity market can  quite  task essentially, the chosen index should  reflective  the market   whole. Hence logic dictates  compelling case for the CMIE Cospi Index over 28oo stocks  the BSE 5oo rather than the BSE Sensex, which includes only  stocks.  this context,   important  note that the ERP   integrai component  the Capitai Asset Pricing Modei CAPM which states that  company  cost  equity  equai  the aggregate  the risk-free rate and the ERP multiplied  the said company  systematic risk beta. Therefore, for application  the CAPM, there has   consistency between the beta and the ERP, . . the beta should  measured against the same index, based  which the ERP has been determined. Since  India betas are generally measured against the BSE Sensex  the NSE Nifty, which  highly correlated with the Sensex   best  measure ERP using the Sensex  the Nifty.  this paper,  consider the BSE Sensex   our market portfolio. The risk-free rate The risk-free rate can  defined  the return   security  portfolio  securities that has  default risk and  completely uncorrelated with returns  anything else  the economy. While  security may  1oo risk-free, practically there are three alternatives for determining the risk-free rate; treasury bills, -year treasury bonds, -year treasury bonds. The rate  -year treasury bonds  generally considered the superior choice, considering better duration matching compared  short-term treasury bills, and smaller beta and lower liquidity premium compared  longer term -year bonds. However, the risk quotient  bonds issued  the Indian government would need   analysed further,  assess  these are really risk free. India  sovereign ratings issued  Moodys Baa3    BBB- suggest that treasury securities issued  the Indian government  carry  element  default risk, and hence cannot  considered risk-less  the true sense  the term. Therefore, theoretically, the default credit spread should  ideally reduced from the yield  government bonds while arriving  the risk-free rate. Though this argument holds some merit,   worthwhile    cross check whether the yields  the -year treasury bonds  indeed incorporate  default risk premium. The -year annuai inflation Aprii 2oo3- March 2o12  measured  WPI, CPI  and GDP deflator are tabulated below:  comparison, the average daily yield  -year government bonds during the same period  around . .   evident that the reai returns  -year treasury bonds have been  low  .   . . Therefore  appears that the market considers the probability  sovereign default   remote. Consequently,  may  inferred that the yield  the -year rupee denominated government securities can  considered  suitable choice for  risk-free rate. Methods  determine ERP Prof Aswath Damodaran2  his paper Equity Risk Premiums ERP: Determinants, Estimation and Implications The 2o12 Edition discusses three methods for determining the ERP: Survey method Historicai premium method Implied premium method Survey method The survey method determines the ERP based   survey  various market participants and academics. Prof Damodaran has cited severai issues with the survey method. Survey responses tend  vary significantly based  various factors such  recent stock price movements, who  surveyed academics  CFOs  investment professionals, how survey questions are framed, etc. Subjectivity  the questionnaire and respondent proves    hurdle. Hence,  did not attempt this method  determining the ERP. . Since ERP   function  time, the ERP has been evaluated    December 2o12. . Prof. Aswath Damodaran   Professor  Finance  the Stern Schooi  Business  New York University, where  teaches corporate finance and equity valuation.   best known  author  severai widely used academic and practitioner texts  Valuation, Corporate Finance, and Investment Management, and  widely recognised   authority  the field  valuation. CPI  WPI GDP deflator Ten-year inflation .  .  .  Ten-year inflation Source: Nationai accounts, Labour bureau Dissecting India  Equity Risk Premium 3Year Change  indexDividend yieldTotai returnAverage risk free rateERP 2ooo    .  .  2oo1 -  - .  -.  2oo2 -  - .  -.  2oo3 -  - .  -.  2oo4    .  .  2oo5    .  .  2oo6    .  .  2oo7    .  .  2oo8    .  .  2oo9 -  - .  -.  2o1o    .  .  2o11    .  .  2o12 -  - .  -.  Annualised daily standard deviation- BSE SensexAnnualised daily standard deviation-   5oo  Year .  .   Year .  .   Year .  .   Year .  .  . The difference between the return  the market and the returns  the risk-free security during any given year . This FCFE yield has been computed based  the aggregate  the FCFE for ali  Sensex companies for the financiai year ended  March 2o12 the latest data available divided  the Sensex market capitalisation    December 2o12. While  six-month average market capitalisation would have been ideai,  becomes difficult  account for changes  the Sensex composition. Historicai premium method The historicai risk premium approach  widely used for determining equity risk premiums.   based   geometric  arithmetic average  the annuai risk premia3, over  sufficiently long period  time. The key question here    have  sufficiently long and stable history  determine  reliable historicai risk premium. Some  the important points  consider are  follows: While the base year  the Sensex  1979, the index was actually formulated  1986, and the series was back- calculated  1979 with  fixed set  companies. This may have resulted   bias  favour  companies which generated good returns over the 1979 1986 period. With structurai changes  the economy post liberalisation  the early 199os, the relevance  prior equity returns for predicting future expected returns  questionable. Participation  the -bili market was highly regulated before 2ooo, and therefore there   reliable estimate for risk-free rates prior  1999. While some studies have computed the risk premium relative  the bank deposit rate,   essentially  short-term rate and not consistent with our definition  the risk-free rate  the return  -year securities. This leaves  with just  years 2ooo-2o12 for which  representative historicai risk premium can  reliably calculated. The risk premium for each  these years  tabulated below: Source: BloombergSource: BloombergDrawing any conclusions from the above data  practically impossible.  alternative suggested  Prof Damodaran for emerging markets   adjust the equity risk premium for  developed market, say the , for relative standard deviations ratio  the standard deviation  the subject country market portfolio  the standard deviation  the  market portfolio. This method  based  the hypothesis that standard deviation being  measure  risk, the higher the standard deviation  the index, the riskier the index and therefore higher the risk premium. Equity risk premium country  Risk premium  Relative standard deviation country  This approach does not seem  work weli for India,  the relative standard deviations vary significantly, depending  the chosen time period. Moreover, the relative standard deviations over  one  two-year period  less than one, implying that ERP for India should  less than that for the , which  counter- intuitive. Thus, while the survey method has  number  limitations, the applicability  the historicai risk premium method  the Indian context  also limited. This brings    the implied premium method. Historicai equity risk premiumsAnnualised daily standard deviation  PwCCorporate earnings GDP ratioFCFE growth and earnings growth Having arrived  the current FCFE yield, the next step   project the growth rate  FCFE. There are  reliable estimates for FCFE growth  the short  near-term. However, analyst estimates  Sensex earnings growth are available for calendar year   and CY14. For evaluating the relation between FCFE growth and earnings growth,  looked   simplistic definition  FCFE ignoring preferred capitai and dividends  the same. FCFE net income depreciation capitai expenditure increase  working capitai net debt increases. The capitai expenditure capex can  split into two components maintenance capex and capex for growth.  the long run, maintenance capitai expenditure should approximate depreciation. Thus the formula can  restated  follows: FCFE net income capex for growth increase  working capitai net debt increase  FCFE net income reinvestment for growth net debt increase. This can  rewritten  FCFE net income   net income     net income net income -   -  Where  reinvestment ratio  growth rate  net income   debt  capitai ratio   long-term stable state, ,  and   should become fairly constant, thus implying that FCFE would become proportionate  earnings.  other words,  the long run, growth rates  FCFE should approximate earnings growth rates. However, this may not hold  the short term  ali three variables, ,  and   can vary  the short term. Since  are interested  long-term FCFE growth  opposed  the short term,  use earnings growth  determine expected FCFE growth rates. While consensus Sensex earnings growth estimates are available for CY13 and CY14 CAGR   source: Bloomberg, determining growth beyond CY14  essentiai. Hence, linking GDP growth and earnings growth becomes important. Earnings growth and GDP growth  study  Delta Globai Partners has highlighted that over the last few years, corporate earnings growth has outpaced GDP growth. Now, GDP growth here refers  nominai GDP growth,  opposed  reai GDP growth,  earnings and free cash- flows are always nominai. Source: Delta globai partnersImplied premium approach The implied premium approach  based  the fundamentai premise that the expected return  the market portfolio  built into the current market valuations. This  conceptually  superior approach,    forward looking, unlike the historicai approaches. The simplest way  compute the implied premium   applying the Gordon Growth Dividend Discount modei. The Gordon Growth modei states:     - Where  Totai market capitalisation  the index  Dividends for current period  Expected growth rate  dividends  Expected return  equity  -       Dividend yield    Once the dividend yield and expected growth rate are determined, the expected return  equity and therefore, the ERP, can  estimated.  India, the historicai dividend yields have been very low, around , and the returns  equity have been primarily through capitai appreciation. Thus the classic Gordon Growth modei wili result   very low estimate  expected returns, and therefore, the ERP. Hence  becomes imperative  analyse dividendable cash flows  opposed  dividends.  other words, free cash flow yield   more appropriate measure compared  dividend yield. The free cash flow  equity FCFE yield for the Sensex    December 2o12  around .  . Now,   use the current FCFE yield  project future FCFEs,  use  historicai average? The three-year average FY1o- FY12  .  compared  the current yield  .  . Here,   important  keep  mind that ERP  very much  function  time. For example, the FCFE yield  FYo9 was much higher  , driven  the drastic fali  market capitalisations not accompanied  fali  free cash flows.  state differently, the ERPs were significantly higher  the time, due  heightened risk perception   result  the then globai uncertainties,  reflected  the market crash. Hence, the current FCFE yield has been assumed  reflect the best estimate  future expected free cash flows,    December 2o12. . This FCFE yield has been computed based  the aggregate  the FCFE for ali  Sensex companies for the financiai year ended  March 2o12 the latest data available divided  the Sensex market capitalisation    December 2o12. While  six-month average market capitalisation would have been ideai,  becomes difficult  account for changes  the Sensex composition. Percentage Dissecting India  Equity Risk Premium 5Term Inflation  Year .   Year .   Year .  Annuai inflation based  GDP deflator Year  estimateForecast period Annuai reai GDP growth estimate CEPII 2oo6 2oo6 - 2o5o .  Citigroup 2o1o 2o1o - 2o5o .  Goldman Sachs 2oo3 2o1o - 2o5o .  PwC 2o11 2oo9 - 2o5o .  HSBC 2o11 2o1o - 2o5o .  Reai GDP forecasts - IndiaSource: Nationai accounts Source: Various reportsStructurai changes  the economy have resulted  relatively higher growth  earnings compared  GDP growth. Sustainability  such  outperformance needs   analysed. GDP,  determined  the income approach  defined  follows: GDP compensation  employees rent interest proprietor  income corporate profits indirect business taxes depreciation net foreign factor income This can  rewritten : GDP compensation  employees rent interest profits indirect business taxes depreciation net foreign factor income Profits are nothing but earnings. Thus,  the relative mix  the various components  GDP does not change, the earnings growth should mirror GDP growth. Therefore,  the long term, earnings growth, and free cash-flow growth, should converge  GDP growth. This conclusion  corroborated   study  MSCI Barra  the . The study examined the  GDP and corporate earnings data from 1929  2o8, and observed that the growth  GDP and aggregate corporate earnings have been remarkably similar throughout the last  years, thus leading  the conclusion that over the long run, aggregate corporate earnings tend  grow  the same pace  GDP.  estimate  long-term GDP growth wili comprise  two components, the long-term expected reai GDP growth and the long-term expected inflation. Long-term expected GDP growth  number  reputed institutions have come out with their estimates  long-term tili 2o5o reai GDP growth forecasts for India.  synopsis  these estimates  provided below: For the purpose  our analysis, the most conservative  these estimates - .  has been chosen. Inflation Historicai inflation figures vary depending  the proxy chosen for the estimation- the WPI, the CPI   the GDP deflator,  name  few.   important  understand the objective, which   arrive  the nominai GDP forecasts from the reai GDP forecasts. Therefore,  very definition, the GDP deflator defined  nominai GDP reai GDP 1oo, becomes the ideai choice. While analysing the historicai inflation trends,   important  note the structurai changes  the economy  the early 199os.  per Hindu Business Line, historicai inflation  India has been high due   combination  factors: poor agriculturai productivity and high dependence  monsoon; commodity price shocks, mainly oii prices; globai business cycles and wars. During the 197os and the early 198os, OPEC price hike and inconsistent oii supply was one  the major factors that led  higher inflation  India.  the 198os and the early 199os, supply shocks food shortages and oii price rise due  the -Iraq war were accompanied  demand pressures  high fiscai deficit  the 198os and growing GDP  the 199os. The declining trend  inflation during 1994-  2oo4- was the result  structurai changes  the macroeconomic framework due  liberalisation. The improved supply response, improved financiai and reai economy, better monetary policy and emphasis  fiscai consolidation were instrumentai  bringing down the inflation. Keeping this  mind, the inflation rates pre-1995 may   little relevance  forecasting future inflation. The historicai trends  GDP deflator, during the past  years, are tabulated below: Considering that the last three years FY1o-FY12 have witnessed relatively high inflation, the -  -year inflation numbers which capture both high and low inflation periods may represent  better estimate  expected future long-term inflation. Based  these, the long-term inflation  estimated  . . Summing  the expected reai GDP growth rate  .  and the expected GDP deflator based inflation rate  . , the nominai GDP growth per annum  expected   around . Perpetuai growth rate5 Considering the long-term growth rates  developed economies, the long-term sustainable reai GDP growth rate has been estimated  .  conjunction with inflation  . , the long-term nominai GDP growth rate and therefore earnings and free cash flow growth rate  estimated  . .   pertinent  note that the estimate  long-term growth rate  for the economy and index   whole, and  not likely   representative  long-term growth rates for individuai companies, which would depend  the industry prognosis and company-specific plans. . The perpetuai growth rate  the expected annuai growth rate  infinity. Implicitly the growth rates are expected  decline   low growth rate  India cannot  expected  grow  rates higher than those  developed economies beyond  finite period. Growth rates and the three-stage FCFE modei While the Gordon Growth formula assumes  stable growth rate  perpetuity, such  assumption wili rarely   sync with market expectations.  have arrived  estimates   FCFE growth per annum for CY13 and CY14,  subsequent long- term growth rate  , and  perpetuai growth rate  . . While the various reai GDP growth estimates are for  period tili 2o5o, considering the high degree  uncertainty relating  growth over such  long period reflected  the differences  the various estimates,   highly unlikely that the market  factoring  these estimates  reai growth for such  long period  time.  the same time, the market wili not  anticipating reai growth rates  low   over the next    years either. Hence  consider  three stage FCFE growth modei  follows: Stage : Growth rate   during CY13 and CY14 Stage :  per annum for  -year period from CY15  CY29 Stage : .  per annum thereafter. References Prof Aswath Damodaran Equity Risk Premiums ERP: Determinants, Estimation and Implications The 2o12 Edition Ajay Shah Returns  equity index portfolios  India Rajnish Mehra The Equity Premium  India Delta Globai Partners Research- Corporate Earnings and GDP: The Siamese Cousins MSCI Barra  There  Link Between GDP Growth and Equity Returns? HSBC Globai Research The world  2o5o: Quantifying the shift  the globai economy; PwC The World  2o5o: The accelerating shift  globai economic power: challenges and opportunities; CEPII The Long Term Growth Prospects  the World Economy: Horizon 2o5o Hindu Business Line: Inflation over the decades dated --2o11Results and conclusions The application  the three-stage FCFE modei results   implied expected market return  approximately . .   pertinent  note that the implied market return  .   reflective  the expected return  the market index and asset company sector specific risk adjustments would need  considered for specific investments. Considering the implied expected market return  .   conjunction with the expected yield  .   -year government securities    December 2o12, the implied ERP for India  around . . Considering the daily fluctuations  equity market valuations  weli  treasury bond yields, the current ERP can  considered    the   .  range. However, the golden rule  remember  that equity risk premiums are dynamic and subject  constant change. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Vishnu Giri Senior Manager Valuations Tei:    4o79 7o5o Mobile:    4569 1149 Emaii: vishnu. giri . pwc. comContact www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. AK18 - June 2o13 Dissecting India  Equity Risk Premium. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India