Title: pwc_grey-swans-transformation-of-risk-in-an-interconnected-world
Date Published: 2014-01-03 14:33:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_grey-swans-transformation-of-risk-in-an-interconnected-world.pdf
Word Count: 4233
Sentence Count: 311
Average Sentence Length: 20.94

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
risk: 217
management: 101
organisations: 96
risks: 61
india: 46
grey: 40
pwc: 40
survey: 38
business: 38
swans: 35
organisation: 35
source: 26
financiai: 22
world: 21
need: 20
respondents: 19
wili: 19
emerging: 19
across: 19
new: 16

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world www. pwc.  Risk Management Survey 2o13 - India  glance Heart  the matter: The grey swan effect  Are Indian organisations seeing the grey swans?  Current state  risk management p1o How prepared are organisations for the future? p14 What this means  your business? p17 Appendix: About the Risk Management Survey 2o13 p2o  PwC Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 3Sivarama Krishnan Executive Director PwC IndiaSiddharth Vishwanath Executive Director PwC India The risk landscape for organisations the world over and  India  becoming complex. The risks  yesterday are extant and new risks have emerged  the horizon. These include risks arising from increasing interconnectedness  financiai markets, supply chains, information pathways. The threats from disruptive technologies, societai shifts and  complex regulatory environment are also adding  the risk landscape. Expect the unexpected has become the new mantra for organisations.   result, black swans signifying high impact but rare risk events are today turning grey, that , high impact events are less rare. Interconnectedness  also leading  cascading effects  one risk event triggers another with multiplied impact. , are Indian organisations seeing the grey swans?  undertook  survey  more than  organisations  risk management.  revealed that the organisation  risk management agenda continues   occupied with the here and now  risks. The top risks identified  risk professionals  not seem  include key sources  grey swans. The focus  here and now has also perhaps restricted organisations  see risk management   key lever for value protection  value enhancement.  orgainisations have institutionalised basic risk infrastructure,  appears that risk management  largely seen   cost driven  regulations  good practice  against  source  value. Though most respondents  our survey  see value  strengthening risk management and also recognise the need  strengthen the risk management infrastructure, surprisingly  majority  not plan  increase their investments for strengthening risk management capabilities.  navigate  the fast evolving risk landscape, organisations need  work   two-pronged approach, focussed  strengthening their current risk management programme and building risk resilience. While  strong risk management programme wili help organisations deai with the short term known known risk landscape,  institutionalised process for building resilience would  key  manage the known unknowns.  this report,  reflect upon the current state  risk management  India through our survey findings  the context  the fast changing risk landscape that features many grey swans.  are delighted  share this publication with you and hope you wili find  insightfui and enjoyable. Foreword  PwC Heart  the matter: The grey swan effect Risk landscape  evolving fast with increasing uncertainty  the recent past, large-scale calamities, both naturai and man-made, that were once thought unlikely, distant,  isolated; climate change, food security, energy supply volatility, overhaui  technology, and  globai liquidity crisis, have manifested and changed the course  business for many organisations.  the world evolves continually,  host  opportunities arise constantly. With them, however, appear new emerging risks. The macro-economic environment remains challenging and globai operating models have added  mix  efficiency and complexity  virtually every aspect  business. Technology continues  connect  faster and with more ease, but maintaining volumes  data and keeping levels  consistency  ever harder. Regulatory requirements are increasing, both  terms  the sheer number  regulations and also  the levels  specificity. Consumers are better informed and more demanding. And competitors, both new and old, are looking for ways  expand their market share   time when growth remains stagnant  best. Ali these factors have influenced the risk landscape  the past. However,  today  dynamic business environment, there seems  emerge  regular pattern surrounding these. Organisations are finding  increasingly difficult  map the fast-paced risk landscape. Increasing interconnectedness  leading  cascading impacts Interconnected financiai markets Financiai markets today have become more integrated due  the complex interplay  various factors such  increasing globai trade, the growth  financiai intermediaries across geographies, linkages among market participants and the changing preference  savers and investors for financiai instruments.   result, the impact  events such  liquidity crunch, interest rate fluctuations and volatile commodity price risks have grown manifold due  the cascading effect across geographies. Financiai markets  India are continually integrating with the globai financiai system. Untii the early 199os, India  financiai sector was tightly controlled; interest rates were administered, the flow  funds was restricted, foreign exchange was linked  the basket  currencies and the secondary market was dominated  government securities. Today, the gross capitai flows   percentage  GDP stands  around  while the net capitai flows are  about   GDP1. The globai financiai crisis  2oo7  acted  the trigger for debt rolling  the Euro Zone and the growth declined sharply. Starting from Greece and later Ireland, Portugai, Spain and Italy, these Euro Zone economies have witnessed  downgrade  their sovereign debt rating, fears  default and  dramatic rise  borrowing costs. These developments threaten other Euro Zone economies and even the future  the Euro. Given the large economic weight  the Euro Zone  the globe, the widespread impact  the crisis across economies poses  serious concern  organisations across the globe. . Source: Certain Uncertainties, Uncertain Certainties: India   interconnected world Harun  Khan, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank  India,  Oct 2o13 Interconnected financiai markets Integrated supply chains Connected information sourcesDisruptive technologies Societai shifts Changing regulatory environmentNew risk universe Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 5Integrated supply chains  the world economy gets more connected, organisations look beyond their politicai boundaries  tap new markets, leverage cost arbitrage and leverage economies  scale  enhance competitiveness. They have innovated their business and operating models  source goods, services, labour and materiai from overseas and service internationai markets.   result, organisations across the globe are becoming more and more interconnected globai supply chains are now  reality. Consequently, any disruption  one part  the world now  more likely  impact the other regions than ever before.  September 1999, globai semiconductor prices nearly doubled following  earthquake  Taiwan,  key centre for supply  semiconductors2. Hurricane Katrina when  lashed the  Gulf Coast  August 2oo5, the devastation included the supply chains  thousands  companies that relied  petrochemicai products  the raw-materiai sources were concentrated  that area. Indian auto parts manufacturers are facing the heat  globai automotive sector slowdown. Export revenue growth  Indian OEMs supplying auto parts  Europe has dropped from   2o11-    2o12- due  the slowdown  the European auto market3. Brand and reputation risk from misuse  sociai media  2o13, Burger King  Twitter account was hacked4. The company  picture was changed   rivai company  profile picture. The hacked account even displayed  announcement that the company was sold  this rivai. . Source: SESHA: Semiconductor Environment Safety Health Association, Report  Taiwan  921 quake and what  means  the semiconductor industry . Source: Automotive Component Manufacturers Association  India ACMA Annuai Report 2o12-, PwC AnalysisInformation interconnectedness The information that  are generating  growing   phenomenai rate both  terms  value  weli  volume.   now more easily available and quicker than ever before. The internet, mobile, various online applications and sociai media channels such  Twitter, YouTube and Facebook have accelerated the pace  which information pertaining  companies, products and services  made available  the public domain. While the information and the platform are  significant use  the organisation, the associated risk  misuse and snowballing  negative opinions cannot  ignored.  the cyber world proliferates and organisations increasingly connect virtually; methods  breaking into systems have multiplied and have become more sophisticated, significantly increasing the number  cyber incidents over the years. . Source: Burger King Twitter account hacked with McDonald  logo, BBC News, . Feb , 2o13  2oo3, the blackout  North East America left  million people without electricity for about  hours. The sudden breakdown  one power station caused  cascade  switch-offs  other stations,  order  avoid the overloading  one station. With the breakdown  these power stations, gas stations could not pump fuei due  lack  electricity.  gas pumps did not function, there was  explosion  one  the oii refineries, requiring the surrounding population  evacuate. . Source: Electricity Consumers resource Councii, report  The Economic impacts  the August 2oo3 Blackout http: www. elcon. org Documents EconomicImpactsOfAugust2oo3Blackout. pdf  India, the number  cyber crimes reported  expected  increase  2636  2o13  compared  288  2oo8. Nearly , ooo websites were hacked  cyber criminals tili October 2o12,  increase  nearly  from 2oo95. . Source: Nationai Crime Record bureau - Crime  India report, 2o12Interconnected risk events  the business environment  turning more complex and dynamic, the impact  risk  not limited   specific department, function, business unit, organisation  territory.  risk originating from one event results  the self-amplification  the chain  events.  PwCSocietai shifts: India Changing customer profile Larger and younger:  present, the median age  India   years;   projected   .  years  2o15,  years  2o2o and .  years  2o257. Increasing urbanisation Presently,   India  population lives  urban areas. According  the United Nations World Urbanisation Prospects report, the urban population wili increase   rate  .  annually from 2o1o  2o258. Increasing discretionary spending  India, spending  discretionary goods has increased from .   totai expenditure  2ooo  .   2o1o9. Rise  nuclear families Three  five households  India are now nuclear with   households being nuclear  urban areas and   the rural1o. . Source: Population Division  the Department  Economic and Sociai Affairs  the United Nations Secretariat, World Population Prospects: The 2o12 Revision, 2o12, http: esa. . org unpd wpp index. htm . Source: Population Division  the Department  Economic and Sociai Affairs  the United Nations Secretariat, World Population Prospects: The 2o12 Revision, 2o12, http: esa. . org unpd wpp index. htm . Source: Euromonitor Internationai, Euromonitor Internationai from nationai statistics, 2o11, http: blog. euromonitor. com 2o11  regionai- focus-more-discretionary-spending-- households--asia-pacific. htmi . Source: Ministry  Health Family Welfare, Report  Nationai Family Health Survey, 2oo5-o6Complex regulatory environment  businesses today operate  networks spanning multiple locations and entities, regulatory compliance requirements have become more complex. The quantum increase  the number  regulations  organisation has  comply with  further adding  this complexity and increasing the cost  compliance. The number  manufacturing related regulations  the , for instance, has gone  from 2187  2o12  23o2 today. This translates  around .  regulations per week11. Since 1998, there has been   increase  the number  regulations affecting the manufacturing industry. Regulatory costs have increased   average  .  per year12.   imperative for organisations doing business beyond their politicai boundaries  meet regulatory compliance requirements  ali three levels; locai, nationai and internationai. . Source: Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity and Innovation MAPI, report  Macroeconomic Impacts  Federai Regulation  the Manufacturing Sector . Increasing Number  Regulations Challenge Manufacturers, industryweek, Oct , 2o13 http: www. industryweek. com regulations increasing- number-regulations-challenge-manufacturersNew emerging risks Emerging disruptive technologies  article  Newsweek 1995 that discredited the myth  the internet stated The truth   online database wili replace your daily newspaper,  -ROM can take the place   competent teacher and  computer network wili change the way the government works. Today, the internet  addressing ali these and more. The rate  which new emerging technologies are being adopted has significantly accelerated.  case  point  the immediate espousai  sociai media  people and organisations. The inception  the concept coincided with the dawn  the new millennium. What started   easy way  interact with people with similar interests and keeping  touch with friends, has now turned into  powerfui tooi for organisations which  misused, has the potentiai  damage their reputation  reai time. The use  technologies such  pervasive computing, enterprise sociai networking and cloud computing,  only the tip  the iceberg with relation  the emerging risks which can potentially complicate the risk landscape. With humans investing  legitimate efforts  set   colony  Mars, the canvas has just got bigger. Emerging societai shifts Our society has undergone radicai shifts  various spheres such  demographics, urbanisation, family structures and behaviourai changes. These bring along with them new emerging risks. The closure  the DVD retaii chain Blockbuster  the   one such example  behaviourai change which has resulted from the shift  customer preference from DVDs  streaming services such  Netflix. Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 7Between 193o and 2ooo eight major financiai crisis events have occurred. From 2oo1 tili date, there have been five incidents  financiai collapse across the world. During 2oo1-, five major events impacted the energy price volatility  compared  four major events from 193o  2ooo.  summary Given the changes that have surfaced  the rapidly evolving risk landscape due  increasing interconnectedness . . integrated financiai markets, information interconnectedness, integrated supply chains, new emerging risks emanating from phenomena such  emerging disruptive technologies and societai shifts and complex regulatory environment, organisations not only have  manage known risks but also have  become better prepared  manage grey swans known unknowns.   step  this direction, organisations today wili have  look beyond their traditionai approaches  risk management and start building risk resilience into their systems  order  either anticipate and respond   absorb and rebound from the high impact grey swan events. Emerging grey swan effect  the past,  have seen risks which had  large impact, were hard--predict and were beyond the realm  normai expectations; what the philosopher- epistemologist Nassim Nicholas Taleb calls black swans  reference  the fact that Europeans once believed ali swans   white untii explorers  Australia discovered black ones. However, some  these large-impact and low-likelihood events are now more frequent leading  the phenomenon  grey swans. Subprime Mortgage Crisis Globai Recession Russian Financiai Crisis Euro Zone Crisis Libya Civii War Great Depression Secondary Banking Crisis Stock Market Crash Yom Kippur War Syria Civii WarChinese Correction Plunge Iraq WarSept , Attack 2oo1- 2o13 1991- 2ooo 1981- 199o 193o- 198oIranian RevolutionBlack Monday Crash OPEC Formation Asian Financiai Crisis OPEC Quota Increase Iran Iraq War Silver Thursday Occurs Savings and Loan CrisisGulf WarBlack Wednesday Credit Risk Market Risk Liquidity Risk High Fiscai Deficits Volatility  Energy PricesCollapse  Long-Term Capitai Management  PwCAre Indian organisations seeing the grey swans?  observe that globally organisations are modifying their risk management strategy from internai  externai, operationai  strategic and bottom-   top-down approach. PwC  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey titled Dealing with disruption Adapting  survive and thrive provided insights  how senior leadership  actively working  effectively tackling the grey swan phenomenon. Our Risk Management Survey India 2o13 reveals that organisations are yet  shift their focus from here and now risks  grey swan type  risks. Divergence  CEO view and risk professionai view  top risks The Globai CEO survey reveals that Indian CEOs rate the availability  skills, inadequacy  basic infrastructure and increasing tax burden  the top three risk areas. Increasing protectionism  foreign governments, bribery and corruption and exchange rate volatility are also key concern areas. The top three risks  polled  risk professionals Risk Management Survey India, 2o13 are regulatory compliance, data protection and competition. Forex risk and availability  talent are the two  the top six CEO key concerns that appear  the radar  risk professionals and  proxy perhaps the risk management programme. ,  there  divergence  what risk management programmes deliver versus what truly concerns CEOs? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13Q. What are the top  risks for your organisation?           Customer retention  satisfactionCurrency riskBrand and reputationRegulatory changesBusiness process riskRecruiting and retentionMarket share and growthCompetitionData protection and privacyRegulatory and statutory compliance and reporting Organisations that perceive the risk    top  Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world  Are organisations occupied with the here and now  risks The possible emergent areas for grey swans  India include politicai uncertainty, emerging disruptive technology, naturai disasters, etc. Surprisingly, these figure  the risk radar   very smali number  respondents. Only  have identified politicai uncertainty,  highlighted emerging disruptive technology and none have marked naturai disasters  their top risk priorities. Among the top  risks identified  respondents, currency risk  possibly the only risk that could   source  grey swans. Typically most  the risks are the here and now  risks. The leadership tasked with undertaking the risk management for the organisation  occupied with the high predictability areas Grey swans tend  appear across the spectrum   organisation  ecosystem. The more complex the ecosystem   organisation, more are the grey swans that  accosts. Irrespective,   observed that grey swans tend  appear more frequently and are likely    areas where predictability  low  difficult. Thus, leading organisations across the globe expect their senior leadership  concentrate  these areas where there exist more known unknowns. The respondents  the survey did not report  focus  these known unknowns. Key concerns  Indian CEOs 13Key concerns  risk practitioners     Availability  key skills Inadequacy  basic infrastructure Increasing tax burden    Protectionist tendencies  nationai governments Bribery and corruption Exchange rate volatility71   Regulatory and compliance reporting Data protection and privacy Competition  Source: PwC  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey titled Dealing with disruption Adapting  survive and thrive  Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13  PwCCurrent state  risk management Most respondents  not have  risk management policy embedded  their business and operations While most organisations have  risk management policy  place, only   the respondents have embedded the policy  their business and operations  aligning  with their objectives, operating procedures and performance measures.  organisations see true value  risk management  India    largely driven  regulations? The Companies Act, 2o13 and other regulatory requirements such  Clause   the listing agreement  other industry specific regulations require organisations  have  risk management programme. Multinationai companies operating  India are also largely guided  their group risk management policies.  mentioned above, only   the respondents have the risk management policy embedded  the business and operations. ,  most organisations tend  see risk management   cost  compliance rather than  reai defence  terms  value protection? :  you have  formai risk management policy defined  your organisation? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13   Risk tolerance defined Risk tolerance  not defined25   Risk tolerance consistently applied across the organisation Risk tolerance defined  the board levei and communicated across the organisation but not consistently applied Risk tolerance defined  the board levei but not communicated across the organisation :  you have risk tolerances defined  your organisation? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13 Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 11Risk tolerance  not embedded  business  volatility and uncertainty  the economy increases and exposes organisations  risks, the latter have also been compelled  think how much they can endure  order  achieve their objectives.  today  changing business environment,   important  align business strategy with the organisation  risk appetite.   organisation decides  its objectives and its approach  achieving strategic goals,  should consider the risks involved, and its appetite for such risks.   important that the management and board take into account the potentiai impact  changes  the organisation  strategy  light  its risk appetite and tolerance levels. Our survey results revealed that almost   the organisations surveyed have not defined risk tolerances.  further   the respondent organisations that have defined risk tolerances, have not communicated  across the organisation. Eighty four per cent  the respondents  not consistently consider risk tolerance  ali levels while taking important business decisions. ,  most organisations have  challenge with regards  risk-based decision-making  ali levels that  consistent  the overali risk appetite  the organisation? Lehman had been exceeding the firm-wide risk appetite   persistent basis and paid the price15. Lehman took excessive risk exposures  order  make  profit.  doing ,  increased the amount  was prepared  lose   result  its investments from .  billion USD   billion USD. This constituted   increase  its risk limits, enacted during  declining market.  these decisions were not aligned with the bank  overali risk appetite,  lead  its failure. . Source: Mark Denbeaux, Director, Seton Hali Law Center for Policy Research, Lehman Brothers:  License  Faii with other People  Money : Does your organisation have  formai chief risk officer CRO   risk management committee?  Organisations have  independent CRO reporting  boardWhile majority  the respondents have risk management committees, only two-fifths have  independent CRO reporting  the board The Enron collapse established that the pursuit  profit without commitment  good-faith business principles and responsible business behaviour comes   high cost  shareholders. The globai financiai crisis  2oo8 exposed  number  governance-related weaknesses and flawed institutionai structures that resulted  firms failure  understand the risks they were taking. Earlier, the boards were relying merely  the risk reports from the CEOs and CFOs  form their view  the risk profile  the organisation and did not pay sufficient attention  risk management  set  effective structures, such   dedicated risk committee,  facilitate meaningfui analysis  the firm  risk exposures and  constructively challenge the management  profit-seeking decisions. However, boards have realised that  achieve  fair understanding  the risks, they need  interact with the senior executives who are best- acquainted with the risks and also have  independent custodian  facilitator  the risk agenda.  India,  increasing number  organisations have started  create  senior executive position for facilitating the implementation  risk management and  specific subcommittee focussed  the risk agenda. Sixty-seven per cent  the respondent organisations have  risk management committee  place. However, only   the respondent organisations have  independent chief risk officer CRO reporting  the board.  PwCResponsibilities for managing risks have been defined  most respondent organisations but not linked with performance Due  the increased focus  business performance, organisations usually define key performance indicators KPIs  ensure that boards and the top management can regularly review the performance  their organisation against defined business objectives. Organisations with relatively mature risk management practices also define accountabilities and responsibilities  manage risks associated with defined business objectives. The conflict between achievement  business objectives and risk  managed effectively wili encourage smart risk-taking behaviour across the organisation. Organisations need  encourage risk- based decision-making.  not linked with performance,  wili more often than not lead  profit-seeking business decisions that ignore risks. Our survey reveals that only   the respondent organisations have accountability and responsibility towards risk management defined below the executive  audit committee levei. Further, only    the respondent organisations  effective management  risks linked  performance measurement. Financiai services and telecom organisations: Ahead  the curve While  large number  organisations  have defined processes for regular monitoring  compliance  part  their risk management  framework, financiai services and telecom firms perform better than their peers. The survey reveals that   the respondents from financiai services and   respondent telecom organisations have processes defined for continuous monitoring  compliance  part  their risk management framework. :  you have  structured process  place for the monitoring  compliance   risk management framework? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o1322    ongoing monitoring  hoc monitoring Regular monitoring Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13Q: For managing risks, are roles and responsibilities formally defined  your organisation? Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 13Lack  integrated risk management tools for managing risks effectively Risk management tools enable the management  the risk universe and the process  identify, measure, evaluate and mitigate risks.  find that   the respondent organisations are stili using basic tools such   Excei and Access for risk management while only  use integrated risk management tools for managing their risks. The survey also reveals that usage  risk management tools have gained prominence mostly  financiai services firms, where   the respondents have consistently used these tools for managing and reporting their risks. Organisations see positive risk culture key  further improve risk management practices Some organisations are ili-prepared  manage risks not because they have not implemented risk management practices but because the organisation could not develop  strong risk focussed culture. Such  culture would mean that employees know what the company stands for, the boundaries within which they can operate, and that they can discuss and debate openly which risks are necessary   borne  order  achieve the company  long- term strategic goals. Risk culture forms one  the underlying foundations for effectively managing risks across the organisation. The survey shows that   the respondent organisations consider developing  positive risk culture  key  improving risk management within the organisation. : How  technology leveraged for managing and reporting risks  your organisation today? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o1327 Developing positive risk cultureQ: What can  done  further improve existing risk management practices? Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13  PwCHow prepared are organisations for the future? Organisations are struggling  anticipate and assess emerging risks The risk landscape has morphed into something unrecognisable from what  was  decade  two ago. With increasing interconnectedness and concentration  the globai markets, new high-impact risks have changed the globai risk landscape  Difficulties  identifying and responding  emerging risks early enoughKey problems faced  organisations today Organisations using qualitative and quantitative techniquesSource: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13        assessment Organisations undertaking risk assessmentRisk models and advanced quantitative techniques Qualitative and basic quantitative techniques Qualitative techniques Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13significantly and organisations have failed  anticipate and assess such new emerging high-impact risks. The survey reveals that almost   the respondent organisations feei that one  the key problems faced today   identify, assess and respond  the emerging risks early enough ensuring smooth functioning  business operations with minimai disruptions. Few organisations use advanced risk management techniques Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world   order  anticipate and assess emerging risks, organisations need  regularly perform  thorough scan  characteristics and changes  the environment  order  identify events that may have impacted the organisation  shareholder value  the past  may impact   the future. Advance risk models such  scenario planning and horizontai scanning processes need   implemented  order  identify specific issues  concern and potentiai future issues  tapping information sources that are most likely  record the emerging stages   issue  development. Stress-testing  another important technique for scenario contingent analysis  the risk   organisation:  can help such entities  put  place capitai contingency measures, develop  firm  risk appetite, drive strategic business planning, set risk limits, identify portfolios vulnerabilities and opportunities  terms  risk-return trade-offs and determine the optimai timing  strategic decisions. The survey reveals that  the organisations that undertake risk assessment only   the respondent organisations use advanced quantative techniques for risk management. Scenario planning  Royai Dutch Sheli  The British-Dutch globai oii company Royai Dutch Sheli puts  practice advanced techniques such  scenario planning  portrayed  six vivid tangible scenarios for economic growth, oii supply and prices. The scenario foresaw  disruption  oii supply and production. Sheli undertook contingency planning,  define what the company would   this scenario occurred.   result, when the Yom Kippur War broke out   October 1973, oii prices quadrupled and drivers queued  for gasoline  America and  Europe, Sheli was better prepared than its competitors.   the organisations are planning  keep the investments towards risk management the same  marginally increase Source: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13Key reasons for strengthening risk management  your organisationHow  you anticipate the levei  investment  risk management wili change  your organisation over the next three years? Organisations not ready  pay for the value they see  strengthening risk management The rapidly evolving risk landscape and highly uncertain macroeconomic environment warrant organisations  increase their focus  risk management. Sixty per cent  the respondent organisations see value  strengthening their risk management capabilities. However,   the organisations plan  keep their investments  the same levei  only marginally increase them over the next three years  unlock the potentiai value  risk management.   PwCMost organisations see scope for further improvement  risk management While   the organisations feei that structures, systems, controls and infrastructure required  manage risks need   strengthened,  have cited the need  develop  positive risk culture across the organisation  order  translate their risk management practices into action. Twenty- two per cent  the organisations consider that the levei  percentage  integration  risk management with the business needs   improved  order  encourage risk-based decision-making. Sixteen per cent  the organisations seem   satisfied with their existing risk management capabilities and see  significant changes  the near future. Organisations seem  recognise the value and the need  improve risk management but are unwilling  investSource: PwC Risk Management Survey India, 2o13Q: What can  done  further improve existing risk management practices? Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 17What this means  your business  the present day, large impact and low likelihood events have become more frequent and require organisations  think beyond business--usuai. Accordingly, entities and firms need  develop  strong risk management programme which serves   key lever for value protection rather than just being driven  compliance requirements. However, just  strong risk management programme wili not  sufficient for organisations  anticipate and prepare for grey swans  these programmes typically focus  short-term known risks. Organisations wili also need  institutionalise  process  build risk resilience and thereby embrace medium range scenario planning  identify, analyse and plan for disruptive grey swans. Strengthening current risk management capabilities Closer alignment  business and risk strategy for better risk reward trade-off Organisations need  align strategy  risk imperatives for improved business decisions. The risk strategy needs   internally subjected  the organisation  predefined risk appetite and tolerances. Thereon the risk strategy needs  become integrated within the decision- making framework. This wili help organisations undertake suitable trade- off decisions between risks and rewards. Imbuing risk awareness  the mind-set, behaviour and overali culture  the organisation  static risk culture focussed  compliance  regulatory and internai framework wili not help organisations effectively navigate the evolving risk landscape.   important for organisations  focus  building  risk- aware culture. Stakeholders need  understand that risks are not   avoided, but   proactively identified, understood and responded   alignment with the organisation  business strategy. And while doing , aim  transform risks into opportunities. Leveraging technology for effective risk management Risk management tools enable the management  the risk universe and the process  identify, measure, evaluate and mitigate risks. Organisations currently using basic tools like spreadsheets for risk management need  leverage advanced tools for risk identification, risk modelling, risk analytics and risk management. There are  number  sophisticated tools available for risk management for industries and for functions which can  customised  meet the organisations specific requirements. Expenditure  risk management technology needs   seen   investment where the payoff outweighs the expenses. Linking risk and performance for smart risk-taking Aligning risks with performance metrics enables organisations  improve the quality  business decisions and business outcomes. Organisations need  ensure that risk related indicators are part  the strategic plan  the organisationai scorecard and that relevant metrics feed into each individuai  performance scorecard  plan. This alignment  cruciai  this wili also set the stage for discussions  risk tolerances, risk profiling, risk appetites, risk indicators, etc. ensuring that  the process the organisation  risk culture  strengthened.  PwCBuilding risk resilience for managing grey swans Thinking beyond business--usuai  manage new emerging risks Organisations need  adopt  integrated approach that wili consider cross-organisationai implications and impact due  risks. Accordingly, organisations wili need   beyond traditionai risk management and look  institutionalising processes  address disruptive risks. Ensuring  institutionally sound environment  mitigate new risks  even looking  turn impending risk into opportunity wili keep organisations ahead  the curve. Anticipate AbsorbRespond ReboundAdapt Turn crisis  opportunityCustomers Channels SuppliersExternai organisationai elements People Process Technology Internai organisationai elementsBuilding resilienceBuilding risk resilience  prepare for grey swans Managing the grey swan effect calls for organisations  proactively engage with multiple layers  business management, customers, strategic partners and regulators. Organisations need  identify the sources  grey swans through  early warning system and establish  mechanism  evalute the implications  these events and prepare adequate responses  the same  stem the downside  the risk and leverage  the upside opportunity. Based  the nature  grey swans, organisations wili need  put  place either  anticipate and respond   absorb and rebound framework.  times, grey swans provide early warnings and accordingly,  anticipate and respond framework such   the   case study wili help organisations prepare  appropriate response perhaps even benefit from the event  tapping the upside opportunity.  certain cases, grey swans strike organisations without early warnings either  account  their nature  because the current risk indicators are not adequate  evolved enough  identify them beforehand such   the Ericsson-Nokia case study.  such cases organisations need  have the capability  absorb the shock and act  order  rebound back  business--usuai and  possible create  opportunity out  the crises. Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world 19Case study:   - Turning risk into opportunity When Hurricane Katrina lashed the  Gulf Coast  August 2oo5, the devastation engulfed the supply chains  thousands  companies that relied  petrochemicai products with raw-materiai sources concentrated  that area.    supply chain accounting for more than half its production  New Orleans was also affected  the calamity. How being risk resilient helped   Any hurricane entering the Gulf  Mexico automatically triggers  series  emergency measures   , including the transfer  inventory  distribution centres outside the New Orleans area, the sending  inventory backup tapes  headquarters  Cincinnati, Ohio, and the advent  hurricane shutdown procedures. Risk turning into  opportunity   was the first business back  operation after the disaster with its volume share  the coffee market  higher than  the pre-Katrina days.    plans and actions were sufficient  restore operations within  relatively short period  time. Case study: Ericsson and Nokia -  classic case  supply chain disruption   March 2ooo, lightning struck Philips  radio frequency chip manufacturing plant  New Mexico. Fire triggered  extensive chain  downstream consequences for large electronic companies, Nokia and Ericsson. Philips was  that time  key supplier  radio frequency chips for both Nokia and Ericsson. Ericsson: Suffered huge losses and withdrawai from the cellphone production market due  many months  lost production Slow reactive response Nokia: Recovered from the disruption and benefitted from Ericsson  inability  ship high-end models and conquered market space Established  sense  urgency,  case the situation would worsen Daily monitoring  the production status instead  the previous weekly check after the incident Reconfigured its basic phone  accept slightly different chips from suppliers  Japan and the  Tied  spare capacity  other Philips plants  PwCSurvey respondents: Profile Sixty-three per cent respondents are public companies while  are private companies. Eighty per cent  the respondents are from organisations with annuai revenues greater than , ooo crore INR. The respondents belong  diverse industries. Sixty per cent  the respondents are present  more than  states  India. Appendix: About the Risk Management Survey 2o13 The Risk Management Survey 2o13 conducted  PwC India across  section  leading organisations  the country examines current state  risk management practices and explores the preparedness  such entities for effectively managing their risks. The key areas examined  this survey included the following: Current risk landscape Alignment  risk and business strategy Risk governance Risk management process for identification, assessment, mitigation and monitoring  risks Use  tools and technology for managing risks Risk culture The survey was conducted using  structured questionnaire administered online. Respondents were invited  participate  this survey via emails. The results discussed  this report are based  responses from participants risk management practitioners from leading organisations across  industries. Ali figures and graphics  this report are sourced from survey results, unless otherwise mentioned.  have received over  responses  the survey. Respondents: Industry sector wise Automotive Retaii and consumer Oii and gas Financiai services Pharmaceuticai Industriai manufacturing Respondents: Company turnover wise Turnover 1oo crore INR Turnover: 1oo crore INR - 1ooo crore INR Turnover 1ooo crore INRHealthcare Logistics Agriculture Technology Telecom Others Grey swans: Transformation  risk   interconnected world  Healthcare Logistics Agriculture Technology Telecom Others AcknowledgementsAbout the authors Sivarama Krishnan Sivarama Krishnan   Executive Director with the Risk Advisory Services practice  PwC India.  has more than  years  experience across risk management, strategy formulations and process improvement. Siddharth Vishwanath Siddharth Vishwanath   Executive Director with the Risk Advisory Services practice  PwC India.  has over  years  experience across risk management, strategy formulation, financiai and operations advisory. Nicky Sharma Nicky Sharma   Principai Consultant  PwC India with over  years  experience  leading and executing various business strategy, operations and risk consulting assignments. Ankit Virmani Ankit Virmani   Senior Consultant  PwC India with more than six years  experience  risk management, process improvement and revenue assurance.  would like  take this opportunity  thank ali the team members for their contribution  this study report: Manu Dwivedi, Associate Director Srikanth Parthasarathy, Senior Consultant Anju Ekka, Consultant AcknowledgementsAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Satyavati Berera  124 33o 6o11 Arup Sen   6669 1o78 Harpreet Singh  124 33o 6o12 Parin Shah   41oo 442o parin. shah . pwc. comManpreet Singh Ahuja  124 33o 6o21 Neeraj Gupta  124 33o 6o1o Sanjay Dhawan   4o79 7oo3 sanjay. dhawan . pwc. comSivarama Krishnan  124 33o 6o18 Siddharth Vishwanath   6669 1559 Tapan Ray   6669 12o4 www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  129 - December 2o13 Grey Swans. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India