Title: pwc_foreign-banks-in-india
Date Published: 2013-12-17 10:29:30+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_foreign-banks-in-india.pdf
Word Count: 11182
Sentence Count: 805
Average Sentence Length: 21.43

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
banks: 367
india: 280
bank: 258
foreign: 247
banking: 206
financiai: 102
indian: 80
services: 78
branch: 63
also: 62
branches: 62
sector: 60
business: 60
growth: 59
new: 58
globai: 55
wili: 55
capitai: 54
regulatory: 48
exhibit: 46

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Foreign banks  India   inflection www. pwc.  Contents The story  far  Results  the survey p17 Appendices p31 When the history  our times  written,   unlikely   kind  banks. The globai financiai crisis and the large-scale downward adjustments  the lifestyles  many  the West has tarnished the image  banks and eroded the foundation  which these institutions were built- public trust. And yet, the banking system not only survives,  manages  puli itself together  fulfii the enhanced expectations from ever more vigilant and demanding stakeholders. Some  the largest banks  the world learn lessons  humility  capitai and compliance standards seem constantly inadequate  stand   the aggressive benchmarks set  regulators  restore confidence  their banks, and possibly themselves. India,  one  the rising stars  the pre-crisis globai economy has seen  stable rise  its banking sector.  has been one slow and steady trend post the opening  the economy and the first wave  banking reforms  the 199os. Foreign banks were earlier high-end service providers and employers  choice for the Indian elite. Yet, they have now transformed  somewhat blend  with the locai landscape, experimenting with products suited  the Indian way  living and enterprise, doing what they  best; providing cross-border borrowings, capitai and access  globai markets. Although the image  banks has not taken  severe  beating   the West, the sensitivity  regulators  systemic risk issues and the alignment  regulatory regimes across the globe have resulted  challenges.  the above context,  set out  meet foreign banks  India for their views  the market environment, tax, legai and regulatory framework  weli  use  technology and quality  human capitai.  our conversations,  felt  sense  relief  being   weli-regulated jurisdiction and also  sense  being overwhelmed with too many changes;  regulations,  taxation and  the changing competitive landscape.  sensed discomfort with commoditised business models and the lack  ability  differentiate due  prescriptive guidelines.  felt restlessness  the slow pace  growth forced   strict branch licensing regime and inability  use inorganic means  growth. Locai managements  most foreign banks seem acutely aware  the changing demands  the economy and the potentiai for growth  the SME  retaii segments. Yet, the balancing act between home countries risk management and locai regulator  push for inclusion, with little flexibility  distribution models continues    deterrent.  were fortunate  have  majority  foreign banks present  India participate  this survey. The list  participants and the survey questionnaire are placed  Chapter III, alongwith relevant data. This   representative sample. The survey responses were collected and compiled prior  the release  the finai guidelines  RBI  locai incorporation  foreign banks. Although the guidelines are voluntary for most foreign banks operating  India,  believe that the framework  likely  create  inflection point for foreign banks  the dialogue between regulators and industry  the subject progresses and finer details  implementation emerge. Although  dispassionate analysis  the India opportunity  the India threat wili show  long-term secular trend  growth ignoring short-term exuberance  pessimism,  reality, the foreign bank branches  India compete with other geographies for resource, capitai and talent allocation. While the decision  stay  grow requires fervent championship within organisations, there are many instances  banks withdrawing from India  the back  minor  major shocks.  such cases, attempting  regain foothold and -build credibility with regulators  clientele  not easy.  the other side, policymakers expecting long- term commitment from globai organisations have the responsibility  provide  somewhat predictable growth path that can make long-term view  the India business possible. Indeed,  one should have    India, they should want    India.  are gratefui  our survey participants.  believe this  the right time  engage  this dialogue.  also hope that the Indian economy and the foreign banks present  India wili continue  grow and create  higher degree  trust and value for each other.  owe thanks  the team  young researchers working  this project. Their enthusiasm  explore the subject and find themes, globai practices and interesting facts was inspiring.   hope you wili find the report usefui. Foreword Manoj  Kashyap Leader, Financiai Services Shinjini Kumar Leader, Banking and Capitai Markets  PwCThe story  farChapter  Introduction The story  foreign banks  India goes back  the 19th century when the coloniai economy brought with  the need for modern banking services, uniform currency and remittances  British army personnei and civii servants. The earliest banking institutions, joint stock banks, agency houses and the presidency banks, established  the merchants during the East India Company regime largely catered  this growing need. While the agency houses and joint stock banks largely failed and disappeared, the three presidency banks would later merge  form the State Bank  India, India  largest lender. British owned and controlled, these early banks may  considered India  first foreign banks.  was decades after their establishment that the first bank owned and controlled  Indians, the Allahabad Bank, would  established. The opening  the Suez Canai  1869, shift  the balance  globai east- west trade flows through Indian ports, introduction  the railroad and telegraph and other infrastructure improvements, ali contributed  growing interconnectivity  the Orient with the Occident,  the coloniai powers  Europe spread across Asia and Africa. This was followed   phase  numerous Indian  foreign banks coming   service different segments  the economy;  landscape described  Lord Curzon  some old fashioned sailing ship, divided  solid wooden bulkheads into separate and cumbersome compartments. Milestone events for banking  India such  the passing  the Reserve Bank  India RBI Act, 1934, the creation  the centrai bank  1935, bank nationalisation  1969 and 198o did not impact foreign banks much. They adapted weli  the changing economy and retained their niche  service providers and employers  the elite; bringing capitai, innovation and best practices from their home countries. The first phase  banking reforms, triggered  recommendations  the Narasimhan Committee  1991 and the licensing  the new private sector banks through the next two decades inaugurated  era  change. Meanwhile, the opening-  the economy  increased participation  foreign players created greater opportunities for foreign banks  work with their multinationai clients  India.  the more recent past, foreign banks have followed Indian corporate entities  their outbound expansions. The survivai  the banking system  India through the financiai crisis has demonstrated its strengths and most foreign banks present  India believe that India   market with undeniable potentiai. However, like their predecessors, they continue  look for the best possible role they can play amidst the challenging politicai economy, heightened competition and changing financiai services regulations Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 5Foreign banks  India today:  snapshot   March 2o13, there are  foreign banks from  countries operating  branches and  banks from  countries operating  representative offices. Although the discussion around differentiai licensing  stili nascent, there  one foreign bank present   credit card issuer with limited banking licence.  addition,  number  foreign banks have also entered India via the NBFC route, while  considerable number have set  captive centres  the country. Foreign banks present  India  representative offices often have correspondent banking relationships with domestic banks and provide  usefui platform for foreign banks  access opportunities for foreign currency lending  Indian corporate and financiai institutions. Foreign banks have less than   the totai branch network but about   the totai banking sector assets and  sizeable   profits. With 334 branches  ali, the share  foreign bank branches  less than . Exhibit  and  Exhibit : Foreign bank branches  population centre Source: Bank Branch Statistics, Database  the Indian Economy, RBIExhibit : Foreign banks share  banking assets and profits Foreign banks Public sector banks Private sector banks Number  banks    Number  branches 327 , 779 , oo1 Share  deposits    Share  assets    Share  off-balance sheet assets    Source: Database  the Indian Economy,  profile  banks 2o12-, RBIForeign banks  pre- independence India Foreign banks  India today, such  Standard Chartered Bank and HSBC, found their roots  financing the growing trade between Asia and the rest  the world. Traditionai trade items  the time were cotton from Mumbai, indigo and tea from Kolkata, rice from Burma, sugar from Java, tobacco from Sumatra, hemp from Manila and silk from Yokohama, ali flowing  the west through Indian ports, making India  important destination for these banks. Standard Chartered Bank  antecedent, the Chartered Bank  India opened  office  Calcutta  1858, after receiving  Royai Charter from Queen Victoria. The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HSBC, present  pre-independence India through branches, took  major inorganic step  1959 when  acquired the erstwhile Mercantile Bank  India. The Comptoir  Escompte  Paris, which would later become one  the entities  form BNP Paribas, started operations  Calcutta  186o, and represented the French  the second nationality  have  major banking presence  the country after the British. Major American banking companies were  the time restricted  law from operating outside the . The relaxation  these laws paved the way for the globai expansion  American banks  the early 2oth century. Citibank,    was known then, The Nationai City Bank  New York, entered India  19o2, and  Morgan, which had ambitions  entering India  early  19o2, did   1922 via  ownership stake  the Calcutta merchant banking firm Andrew Yule and . Ltd. Banks with one branch Banks with - branches Banks with more than  branches  PwC Opening   foreign banks and other financiai firms and  foreign direct investment  the financiai sector has many potentiai benefits. These include the introduction  financiai innovations and sophisticated financiai instruments  foreign financiai firms, added depth  domestic financiai markets due  foreign inflows, and more efficiency  the domestic banking sector through increased competition. - Raghuram Rajan Committee Report  Financiai Sector Reforms, 2oo8For most foreign banks, their relationship with Indian corporate clients  pivoted around their ability  provide access  globai capitai and debt markets. Although data relating  individuai bank  exposure  India through onshore credit and offshore ECB and trade finance  not available, taking the totai ECB data   proxy for offshore exposure,   interesting  see the consistent upward trendline for externai debt. Understandably, the onshore exposure and its growth are related  the performance  the economy and market share  foreign banks. Exhibit  Although foreign banks largely operate  higher levels  efficiency and maintain low net NPA ratios, due  exposure  the same group  clients, the risks are -related. Interestingly, one  the biggest challenges facing foreign banks  client selection. Although the Indian economy has grown   healthy rate, there are only  handfui  Indian corporates with credible governance processes and globai reputation required  pass muster with the credit divisions  these banks. Increasingly, such clients are also being pursued  domestic banks with larger single obligor limits and greater autonomy  take decisions locally. This automatically segments foreign banks  niche service providers which often collides with the universai banking policy regime. Foreign banks: Evolution and approaches  banking  India Due  the locai branch regime and the operating modei  choice, foreign banks have, for the large part, remained niche players, focussing  trade finance, externai commerciai borrowing, wholesale lending, investment banking and treasury activities. Some large foreign banks have focussed  capturing the retaii market but have remained confined  the high end  private banking and wealth management, while  few others have created valuable niche offerings  the areas  transaction banking, cash management and remittance products. With India emerging   major Information Technology  service provider  the 21st century, many globai banks set  business processing offices BPO  India; primarily  take advantage  the low-cost technology and availability  English-speaking employees. Some foreign banks also created centres  excellence that provided services  the higher end  the value chain. Although not  scope for the present survey, these operations  foreign banks have created attractive and large-scale employment opportunities for educated Indians and have been  interesting part  India  economic, sociai and culturai landscape. With the growing importance    banks, foreign bank BPO centres  India have expanded the scope  their services, providing data analytics, and data-backed solutions, that contribute  the efficiency and profitability  these banks globally. Liberalisation  Foreign Direct Investment FDI norms for financiai services provided further strategic entry routes for foreign banks  the form  NBFCs that could provide specialised non-banking financiai services such  stock broking, merchant banking, leasing and finance and others  specific segments  the economy. Foreign banking groups present  India  branches also took this opportunity  set  separate entities  provide specialised services. This led  the formation  financiai conglomerates  large franchises with multiple entities.  the absence  flexibility  expanding the branch network, the lending NBFCs also created  opportunity for foreign banks targeting retaii clients  create the levei  outreach required for their operations. However, the 2oo6 guidelines  Financiai Regulation  Systemically Important NBFCs and Banks Relationship With Them and subsequent regulations have significantly limited this opportunity  stipulating consolidated capitai market limits and otherwise frowning upon what regulators consider   regulatory arbitrage between  bank and  NBFC engaged   activity permitted  the bank. Exhibit : Both offshore and onshore books have grown, but   different pace Assets  foreign banks  India Externai commerciai borrowings Source: Database  the Indian Economy, RBI Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 7Foreign banks: Bringing globai innovation standards  banking practice  India  addition  setting  the first formai banking institutions  India, foreign banks have made considerable contribution  the banking sector over the years  bringing capitai and globai best practices  weli  grooming talent. Foreign banks have been innovative  identifying specific needs  the market, creating products, and developing organisationai constructs.  good example  the cash management offering  the early 199os, that targeted inefficiencies  cash collection and check processing, identified   specific issue for the Indian market. Built around this were products such  Citicash and Citicheck. More importantly, the bank had  dedicated division  the organisation  address the needs  this market and after  successfui stint  India, the product was successfully introduced  other emerging markets. There are many such examples, including securitisation, foreign exchange derivatives, travellers cheques, channei financing and credit scorecards. Similarly, these banks often introduced risk management practices from their countries and were took steps  become part  the locai culturai and community landscape through their initiatives relating  corporate sociai responsibility, sustainability, and contribution  protection  heritage buildings, locai arts and crafts. Prior  199os, foreign banks easily distinguished themselves vis--vis public sector banks. They used technology  their advantage  create and often maintain lead  premium services such  integrated cash management, private banking, -hour phone banking, internet banking, securitisation, forex and interest rate derivatives trading, risk management and Know Your Customer KYC software solutions. The first Automated Teller Machine ATM  the country, for instance, was set   HSBC  1987. This focus  innovation helped foreign banks build profitable businesses with  relatively high share  investment and fee income. Exhibit   the early stages through expatriate employees, and later integrating locai talent   big way, foreign banks trained and nurtured talent  India.  the process, foreign bank executives  India have also become  rich source  talent for their globai banking networks.  established globai network, ability  specialise, gain access  latest developments  banking technology and services, and the opportunity  gain internationai experiences were key factors contributing  their talent retention. The banking landscape changed dramatically post the entry  new private sector banks. Not only did foreign banks face competition from the new private sector banks that were often run  their own -employees with the opportunity  take quick decisions and upscale   fostering environment using locai technology, but also from some  the public sector banks that did weli  the back  what was then called computerisation and  better way  engaging with the customer. Exhibit : High contribution  investment and fee income  revenues compared  domestic banks Advances Investments Fee-based Source: Database  the Indian Economy, RBI  PwC  would love  own  big bank  India. - Jamie Dimon, CEO,  Morgan Chase Economic Times, 2o112oo5: First roadmap for foreign banks  India One and half decades post liberalisation,  robust regulatory framework governing foreign bank presence  the country became imperative. Twelve new private sector banks had been given licences under the guidelines issued  1993 and 2oo1. Beginning with the voluntary merger  Times Bank with HDFC, consolidation  the newly licensed banks had also started. ICICI and HDFC Bank had established themselves  iconic Indian brands with scale and distribution power. Many public sector banks had been listed and the adoption  technology powered  Indian technology giants had changed the face  Indian banking considerably, putting them   profitable growth path for the near future.   February 2oo5, the RBI released  roadmap for the presence  foreign banks  India along with guidelines  ownership and governance  private sector banks. This was indeed  watershed event   provided the first ever documented policy  foreign banks  the country, and for the first time, spurred  debate about the present and future role  foreign banks  India.  was also  coincidence that the guidelines  private sector bank ownership and foreign bank roadmap were released together. The press release prefacing both documents makes  interesting point about the need for enabling shareholding higher than   facilitate restructuring  the banking system and consolidation. Ironically, that debate remains  relevant today   2oo5, despite  Act  Parliament  December 2o12 having paved the way for enhanced voting rights upto . The new private sector banks also spurred  opportunity for foreign banks and investors  participate  the Indian banking sector through equity investments. For example, ING hiked its stake  ING Vysya Bank    2oo2,  from , HSBC acquired .  stake  UTI Bank today known  Axis Bank  2oo3, Temasek Holdings acquired  stake  ICICI Bank  2oo3 and later increased   , Rabobank acquired  stake  Yes Bank  2oo4 and HSBC acquired .  stake  Yes Bank  2oo8. The discussion paper proposed  graduai increase  the presence and activities  foreign banks  two phases. The period from 2oo5  2oo9 was   utilised  strengthen the domestic banking sector. Speciai emphasis was laid  enabling Indian banks  compete  the internationai arena. Foreign banks were   encouraged  grow their presence  the country post 2oo9. The promised growth path and the perception  India   emerging economic power attracted many banks  set  presence  India  the period after the roadmap.  many ways, developments during this period and subsequent   bear out the not--popular belief that despite its closed policies, India remained exposed  globai turmoii. While the strict regulatory regime around derivatives and risk transfer prevented  sub-prime type  crisis, the boom  the pre-crisis period was not very different from the good times elsewhere. Remarkably, while many foreign banks have set  branches  India, few have followed  consistent growth path over the long-term. One case  point  Bank  America, which sold  successfui retaii business  India  ABN AMRO Bank  2oo1   part  its globai strategy consequent upon merger  Bank  America and Nations Bank  withdraw from internationai retaii operations.  2oo1, RBS took over ABN AMRO Bank and the business was rechristened  India  RBS. More recently, this business has been sold  Ratnakar Bank Limited RBL,  domestic bank. The management  RBL Bank has many  the old Bank  America senior personnei, thus marking  fuli circle. This   good example  the changing dynamics  the market, depending  locai and internationai conditions. American Express Bank  exit from ali but the card business, Barclays Bank  foray  retaii and subsequent exit from that business and some  the other banks experiments with SME lending and exit have also attracted attention  the flux  the non corporate banking space. While the ability  enter and exit businesses   integrai part  strategic business decisions,  India, such decisions are often difficult  time-consuming  implement due   lack  direct and unambiguous regulatory guidance. Recent news about the surrender  their bank licences  Morgan Stanley and UBS have further added  the impression that India presents unique challenges  foreign banks. During the survey, most banks referred  the difficulty  fulfilling regulatory expectations  branches  unbanked areas and agriculturai advances. Most banks were also supportive  priority sector lending  principle but felt that  flexible strategy  support agriculturai lending through established institutions would  practicai.  would the inclusion  infrastructure and export finance within priority areas. Meanwhile, many banks that came  India after 2oo5 awaited further clarity  the roadmap, maintaining their presence and evaluating opportunities. After much anxiety resulting from regulatory discussions around ring fencing and locai incorporation, the RBI released  discussion paper  presence  foreign banks  India  January 2o11. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  Among some circles,  doubt  sometimes expressed   whether the regulatory environment  India  liberai  regard  the functioning  the foreign banks and whether the approach towards foreign participation  the Indian banking system  consistent with the liberalised environment. Undoubtedly, the facts indicate that regulatory regime followed  the RBI  respect  foreign banks  non-discriminatory, and ,  fact, very liberai  globai standards.  Leeladhar, former Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank  India, 2oo7  view  the current globai financiai market turmoii, there are uncertainties surrounding the financiai strength  banks around the world. Further, the regulatory and supervisory policies  the nationai and internationai levels are under review.  view  this,   considered advisable, for the time being,  continue with the current policy and procedures governing the presence  foreign banks  India.   Subbarao, former Governor, Reserve Bank  India, Annuai Policy Statement for the Year 2oo9-1oThe financiai crisis  2oo8 and impact  foreign banks  the aftermath  the financiai crisis  2oo8, the attention  multinationai banks, particularly  those with  large presence  the west, turned  their home countries  they struggled with sudden liquidity problems, many  them going  the brink. The rapid collapse  few  the most respectable globai investment banks and the domino effect  the globai financiai system was dramatic enough  cause tectonic shifts  the banking landscape. Although the crisis was truly globai  nature, its effects  different economies were varied  impact  weli  timing. After the crisis, governments and regulators launched  series  measures  restore their financiai systems. This period also saw greater collaboration among regulators  the globai platform and greater consensus  systemic risks, financiai stability and the challenges  too big  faii financiai institutions. Changes  globai liquidity conditions  governments embarked  stimulus programmes created  fresh set  challenges and opportunities. The survivai  the Indian economy  the immediate aftermath  the crisis had interesting consequences for this liquidity seeking attractive returns. After 2oo9, India actually granted licences   new foreign banks  commence business  India. Exhibit  Western banks, battered  the globai financiai crisis and regulatory measures such  increased capitai requirements and the pressure  -leverage their balance sheets had  -evaluate their investments across emerging markets. Some responded  curtailing their operations, selling off businesses and assets and trimming their exposures  countries increasingly perceived  non-core. Others withdrew ali together, leaving behind advisory and capitai markets activities that were not capitai-intensive. For most foreign banks, India accounts for  minor part  their parents books. Examining the India exposure  foreign banks  the country,  foreign banks had less than   their globai assets  India whereas Barclays, HSBC, Standard Chartered and Citibank have India exposures between      their parent  asset book this  the -country share  offshore exposure data  not available  public domain. This impacts the ability  the champions  long-term growth  India  build consensus within the larger organisation, often losing ground  the faster growing economies.  some ways, the reaction  the foreign banks post-crisis bears out the worst fears that regulators  emerging economies have regarding the behaviour  foreign financiai institutions  fair-weather friends. Although the withdrawai  foreign banks from India has not created  dramatic impact unlike  the Asian  Latin American crisis, the memory  banks withdrawing from the economy lingers with regulators and the public. Consequently   often not easy  - enter the market.  course,  the Indian context, due  specific Foreign Exchange Management Act FEMA and banking regulations restrictions  capitai repatriation and liquidity management, the withdrawai was not disruptive. Nevertheless, this led  further tightening  liquidity and capitai guidelines and prompted discussion around systemic risk management and locai incorporation  foreign banks, eventually culminating  the discussion paper  presence  foreign banks  India  January 2o11. Estimates based  individuai bank  financiai statements, RBI data and PwC analysis Exhibit : Branch licences granted  new and existing foreign banks  India Branch licence granted New banks commencing operations Source: Database  Indian Economy, RBI, PwC  PwC  India, the fallout from recent financiai stress has likely contributed  greater vulnerability  corporate and bank balance sheets and  further downward revision  growth forecasts, which were already very low  the historicai context. This reflects persistent supply constraints and slow progress  structurai reforms. Despite weak demand, however, food prices wili likely keep headline inflation close  double digits IMF, Asia and Pacific region Economic Outlook Update, October 2o13 Currencies and bonds  Brazii, India, Indonesia, South Africa and Turkey came under intense weakening pressure since May  their current account deficits persist, inflation remains elevated, and monetary policy room seems limited  the face  decelerating growth -IMF, Globai Financiai Stability Report, October 2o13Does the 2o11 discussion paper signai  new era? The discussion paper began with  obituary  the second phase outlined  the 2oo5 roadmap. The onset  the financiai crisis had distorted the world envisioned six years ago, into something new and uncertain. The RBI  conservative stance and its successfui defence  the Indian banking system  the face  the globai meltdown created greater confidence  the system. The globai financiai crisis shattered the confidence  the ability  developed markets  regulate their globai financiai institutions. This created the need for emerging markets  protect their own markets from systemic risk  failure  globai institutions. The paper dwelt  the benefits  ring-fencing  capitai and liquidity  times  crisis and acknowledged that foreign banks would need some incentives  incorporate locally. Greater expectation  locai risk management, data aggregation and reporting under the subsidiary mode and the enhanced role  locai and independent directors  decision-making concerning the India subsidiary were detailed. Interestingly, the discussion paper did not propose the same framework for priority sector lending PSL for foreign bank subsidiaries, acknowledging their role  primary providers  export finance.  laid out  simpler PSL requirement, including mandatory financing  agriculture  and smali enterprises , but allowing export  fulfii the remaining . The feedback  the paper was largely apprehensive  tone. What wili the comfort letter mean? How wili lack  parentai rating impact? How wili banks access the hinterland  distribute assets  agriculture sector  smali enterprises? Wili subsidiaries  asked  divest mandatorily? The answers were not immediate  the economic conditions began  change soon after. Hitting the headwinds after 2o11-  there were any doubts regarding the continuation  the coupling  economies, they have been dissipated  the events  the last couple  years. With  lag, the Indian economy also started showing the results  the slowdown and macroeconomic indicators caught  with some  the structurai issues with the Exhibit : India- macroeconomic indicators  the post crisis era GDP growth CPI CAD Source: IMF, Database  the Indian Economy, RBIeconomy. This was somewhat expected  the increased liquidity from the developed economies initially buoyed  the emerging markets and the subsequent adjustments, coupled with slow recovery  the western markets began  play their course. Exhibit  For India, ali this also came  the backdrop   upcoming election, fiscai imprudence  weli  negativity generated from widely reported retrospective changes  tax laws, rating downgrade fears and reports  violence and poor sociai and physicai infrastructure. Another relevant event between the discussion paper and the finai guidelines was the release  The Nair Committee Report  PSL  2o12. Marking  break  thinking, the committee recommended that Wholly Owned Subsidiary WOS  foreign banks  brought  par with domestic banks. Although recommendations  the Nair Committee were only partially accepted, foreign banks with more than  branches  India were brought  par with domestic banks for PSL compliance purpose. However, banks with less than  branches were allowed  continue with fulfilling  requirement largely through export finance. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 11Globai rebalancing  capitai Fast growth  globai finance  the pre- crisis era led  the emergence  really large banks, particularly  Europe. For instance,  many European countries, the asset size  the largest banks  greater than the GDP  the country. Exhibit  Hence,   not surprising that the reform  Europe  leading  the deleveraging  these banks. Similarly,  the , bailouts and subsequent attention  banks has limited the capacity  most banks for aggressive internationai expansion. While the European Union  and the European Centrai Bank ECB are stili  close the chapter  post reform banking regulations, clearly the discomfort with too-big--faii banks  here  stay.  the other hand, many Asian economies and Australia were largely unaffected  the crisis, many having surplus capitai that needs  find its way offshore. The oii- producing Middle- Eastern countries have also weathered the storm weli and have provided capitai  many  the banks. Rebalancing  globai capitai, greater trade interconnectivity  Asia, Africa, Australia and the Middle East, migrating populations and geopoliticai realignment are likely  lead  changes  the foreign bank landscape  India, and the window  opportunity  grow   WOS may   important strategic imperative  that context. This trend  evident from the fact that  the  new bank branches granted  Scheme for subsidiarisation  foreign banks  India:   the end  the wait? Given the backdrop  the 2o14 generai elections and the uncertain macroeconomic environment, the timing for the release  the scheme for subsidiarisation could have been better. According  this document, foreign banks present  India prior  2o1o wili have the option  subsidiarise  continue  operate  branch. Given the macroeconomic and politicai condition  weli  uncertainties  globai economic recovery, this must   welcome relief.  banks that gave  undertaking  convert into subsidiaries, the change  the economic environment must appear stark and the lack  flexibility, difficult. Also, some  the parameters described for mandatory conversion into subsidiary are somewhat subjective and therefore clarity wili emerge with time. Interestingly, Indian banking regulation makes  mandatory for banks  transfer parts  profits  reserves. Repatriation  such profits  the head office requires RBI approvai. Both before and after the financiai crisis, regulations have been issued under FEMA and the Banking Regulation Act  restrict cross border movement  liquidity. These measures limit the likelihood  free capitai repatriation  parent  branches.  countries with relative ease  capitai movement, this  one  the important tenets driving the agenda  locai incorporation. The other genuine concern that regulators have developed based  experience  the dominance  the banking system  foreign banking organisations; thereby increasing vulnerability  the domestic financiai system. This  apparent from the stated intent  curb growth beyond   assets and   capitai dominance. However, the measures  curb further growth specific approvai for new capitai infusion  WOS and limiting the number  branches  new banks  not appear  incentivise the WOS mode  constraints apply  WOS growth and new banks, but not  existing banks operating  branch mode. And yet, the scheme creates  opportunity for foreign banks  grow  India  almost the same way  domestic banks. This makes  worth examining the possibilities and business impact  locai incorporation.  the following sections,  examine some aspects  the new framework that  likely  unfold  the scheme  operationalised and clarity emerges  some  the other regulations  the pipeline. foreign banks since the financiai crisis, approximately  are new foreign bank entrants. After the financiai crisis,  new foreign banks have been granted licenses  the RBI, which include five Asian, four Australian and two European banks. Retaii and inclusive banking  differentiated banking The discussion paper articulated the preference for retaii banks over niche banks. While  reality, only few foreign banks offer fuli suite retaii services, due  the regulatory expectations, ali foreign banks operating  India need  offer retaii liability and basic banking products.  most countries, regulation for retaii deposit accepting banks  more stringent than regulation for banks that offer limited facilities  non retaii clients.  India,  the other hand, incentive  the form  branch licences that are discretionary  tagged  retaii banking.  August 2o13, the RBI released  discussion paper  banking structure  India, wherein, among other things, the discussion  differentiated licensing has been initiated. This wili   important step  the right direction  create the right structure for aspiring retaii banks that are likely  grow  subsidiaries with large branch networks  against banks whose business models are suited  niche activities with limited growth ambitions and limited capacity  create systemic risk. Exhibit : Banking assets  GDP  Eurozone Switzerland GermanySource: The Banker, IMF, PwC analysisTotai assets  top  banks GDP France Spain GreeceJapan   PwC Finai guidelines Minimum capitai requirement INR  billion Minimum CRAR  Priority sector lending targets  with five year transition period Raising  funds  India Permitted  raise non-equity INR resources, may list  three years Use  parent credit rating not permitted except for custodiai services and internationai operations, letter  comfort required Branch licensing  par treatment with domestic banks with some restricted sensitive areas Board  directors Minimum  Indian resident directors and minimum one third independent directors, minimum two-third non-executive directors Unbanked and rurai branches  branches  unbanked, rurai areas Mergers and acquisitions Foreign banks WOS may  permitted Taxation Specific provision created regarding applicability  section  , transfer pricing, VAT, service tax, deductibility  expenses  conversion and state stamp duty acts Measure  controi dominance Further growth may  restricted  foreign banks collectively achieve   capitai and reserves against current   the banking system and foreign bank branches achieve   totai assets  and off balance sheet  the banking system. Summary  the RBI guidelines  WOS . Banks commencing business before Aug 2o1o Conversion optionai . Banks commencing business after Aug 2o1o Conversion mandatory  conditions being applicable . Future entrants Principles  single mode  presence and reciprocity  continue for both branch and WOS mode  entry;  addition,  conditions are applicable, mandatory WOS Conditions Bank home country gives preferentiai claim  domestic deposits  winding- proceedings  has inadequate disclosure requirements  has unsatisfactory supervisory arrangements Bank has complex structures   not widely held   systemically important  the Indian banking sector Bank becomes systemically important  India . . its totai assets comprise .   greater  totai assets  the Indian banking sector  balance and credit equivalent  off balance sheet Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 13Organic growth: The twin challenges  near nationai treatment and reciprocity Under the current branch licensing regime, each branch location  approved  the regulators.  the last few years, foreign banks have found  difficult  get additionai branches  metropolitan centres and have been able  find business opportunities  smaller centres. Yet, foreign bank branches remain concentrated  the metropolitan centres  Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Bangalore. Only eight foreign bank branches out  334 are located  the rurai areas,  against 25o  the metropolitan areas. Exhibit  The new scheme opens the field for foreign banks  access the automatic approvai  open branches except  specified sensitive areas.  also brings with  the challenge  managing the operating modei  having :  branch ratio between urban and other centres and having  branch out  unbanked areas with less than , 999 people often with little physicai infrastructure. Some  the foreign banks operating  India have the experience  banking  rurai, semi-urban  inaccessible geographies  their own countries. Some have successfully leveraged mobile  internet technology  completely cut out brick-and-mortar branches and attendant costs and constraints. Under Indian banking regulations, while distribution  assets  possible through agents, distribution  liability products requires creation  client touchpoint through branch  Banking Correspondent , which must  within specified radius   kms  the branch.  the competitiveness  the banking sector grows, there  likely   increasing demand for liberalisation  norms  this area.   interesting  bear  mind that  the long-term, the incentive  the form  brick-and-mortar branches may not remain  incentive. Also,   unclear how reciprocity wili play out for foreign banks choosing  incorporate  WOS  Indian banks have not had the opportunity  grow  their home territories. The likelihood  bilaterai agreements allowing preferentiai treatment wili change the nature  foreign bank segment  allowing banks from countries with bilaterai agreements  grow   faster pace than that possible for foreign banks  generai. Inorganic growth: Better visibility, but uncertain timeline Inorganic growth opportunities via acquisitions wili  important for foreign banks going forward, because they may find  difficult  build organically under the new branch licensing formula and also, because once consolidation  the banking sector kicks , being excluded from inorganic opportunities could mean further competitive disadvantage. While the scheme does not provide fuli clarity  the timeline within which foreign banks may  allowed  acquire  bank,  signals clearly that such acquisition  possible  the near future. Unfortunately, for those banks that need  make  decision  incorporate  the short run, this lack  clarity  problematic. Another important issue relating  inorganic growth  the misalignment  shareholding with voting rights. The Banking Regulation Amendment Law  December 2o12 allowed for the alignment  shareholding with voting rights within the limit  . However, the RBI circular  bank ownership continues    force with restriction  voting rights upto . This makes acquiring controi   bank difficult. This also may   reason for the unattractiveness  the option  dilute  list locally. Incidentally, most banks that have gone through mergers and acquisitions globally have found  challenging  effect such mergers  India for their operating branches. Some banks have not been allowed  use branding consistent with new globai branding, while others have found  hard  exit portfolios  buy India businesses  seller banks  the globai transaction. Banking and technology  the midst  rising costs and increasing regulatory and politicai pressure  expand banking access  rurai areas, foreign banks are also experimenting with partnerships and the use  different forms  technology for providing banking Exhibit : Foreign bank branches  population centre Source: Bank Branch Statistics, Database  the Indian Economy, RBI services. Globally, banks have started  move beyond the branch, and  some cases, the ATM formats, and have begun  deploy banking services via channels that promote flexibility and mobility. Technology  value driver  the distant horizon, disruptive technology seems  emerge   challenger  the long-term sustainability  banking  the world has known   far. Yet,  India, concerns around operationai and systemic risk from non- bank operators wili continue  make banks important partners  innovative technology companies for mutuai benefit. The regulatory preference for banks  better regulated and therefore safer vehicles for financiai services wili continue  work for banks for the foreseeable future. The current wave  technology integration  banking services has also been spurred  growing consumer expectations and fast adoption   younger, more tech-savvy generation.  survey  PwC titled The New Digitai Tipping Point, presents interesting trends about growing consumer appetites for banking through alternative channels across developed and emerging economies. For instance,   average,  little over   the consumers  India reported having used mobiles  purchase financiai products, while  used the internet   the same. While non-touch consumer acquisition continues   constrained, many other technologicai capabilities, often developed for the uniquely Indian situation, are likely  help banks deai with the issue  growth. For example, banks and other non-bank players have started deploying white labei ATMs and mobile Point  Sale PoS systems such  micro- ATMs that can  operated  business correspondents, and provide basic banking services  the rurai customers. Similarly,  KYC and the graduai convergence  KYC requirements across financiai services intermediaries may lead  more sustainable customer acquisition models.  PwC  major foreign banks specialise  the provision   menu  sophisticated financiai products and also facilitate  the flow  foreign capitai, their larger presence wili meet the requirements   growing and vibrant economy. -Banking Structure  India: Way Forward, Reserve Bank  India Discussion Paper, 2o13 The Bharat challenge  the Bharat opportunity? India  focus  financiai inclusion and the growth pattern  the Indian economy makes  directionally clear that  grow significantly  India, banks wili need  come  with  sound strategy for expanding the reach  financiai services. Meanwhile, the differentiai licensing regime may open the window for foreign banks  bring their specialised service offerings and focus  their core business and clientele. This wili,  many ways, also align the banking structure better with the nature  the Indian economy that tends  have demand for high-end globai products  weli  large, low-value, high-volume business. The push for the second wave  banking reforms wili come from the criticai need for funding large infrastructure projects  the one hand hence developing  bond trading market and providing simple access products  households  the other.  wili  interesting  that scenario  witness the growth  competition from domestic players  niche segments, where business models  far have been fairly standard and undifferentiated. Foreign banks can play  significant role  providing the capitai, knowhow and the energy required  kickstart  differentiated banking sector with foreign and domestic and maybe joint venture entities that best matches the demand  the diverse Indian economy.  the retaii banking space, there   remarkable role reversai compared  the early years  post liberalisation, when private sector banks looked  foreign banks for best practices and human resources. Many  the new foreign banks now look  the new private sector banks for talent, particularly  the retaii space and business models  the smali business and agri lending space. Increasingly, the financiai inclusion mandate wili require creative thinking. Portfolio purchases, securitisation, customised risk models for the financially excluded market, non-branch distribution and origination formats wili ali require collaboration with innovative technology and payment solutions companies  other banks and financiai institutions such  microfinance and non-bank finance companies. Amidst concerns  high inflation, lower growth, high Current Account Deficit CAD and threats  rating downgrade,    uncomfortable time  take long-term decisions  entity structure  growth. Yet, the long-term outlook  India, geo politicai realities and the likelihood  banking reforms make  difficult  stay away and wait. For foreign bankers leading big  smali banking businesses  India, the heat  the globai boardrooms  increasing, especially amidst talks  Chinese reforms, Indonesian growth  cost competitiveness  Philippines for BPO services. Increasing competition amidst shrinking growth, smali pooi  credit-worthy and weli-governed clients, high incidence  financiai crimes, concerns around data protection and malpractices, heightened responsibility for Anti Money Laundering AML compliance within  wider economy with high levels  unaccounted wealth and increasing cost  operations wili continue  keep foreign banks operating  India  their toes. Yet, this  just another stage  the long journey and partnership that these institutions have with this country  tremendous potentiai, diversity, colour and charm.  the foreign banks and the Indian economy adapt and change and diversify, the bonds wili only grow stronger. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 15Indonesia Foreign banks share  banking sector assets  Financiai literacy and accessibility mandates for domestic banks Differentiai licensing regime based  capitai conditions Foreign ownership  domestic banks permitted    Brazii Foreign banks share  banking sector assets  Ear marked credit akin  priority sector towards agriculture, housing loans and microcredit for domestic banks Differentiai licensing regime based  ownership and activity 1oo foreign ownership permitted  domestic banks Turkey Foreign banks share  banking sector assets  Financiai literacy and access programmes mandated for domestic banks 1oo ownership permitted  domestic banks Differentiai licensing based  activity - investment banking, deposit banking, Islamic banking  July 2o12 Bank Indonesia  reduced the stake that any single foreign shareholder can acquire   locai bank from   , while dropping the cap for domestic bank ownership   and  for locai individuals Asia Money,  Sep 2o13South Africa Foreign banks share  banking sector assets  Differentiai licensing regime based  activity 1oo foreign ownership permitted  domestic banks Inclusive banking requirements are made  domestic banks, and foreign banks are largely confined  corporate and wholesale lending Foreign banks including HSBC Holdings PLC, Citigroup Inc. , Standard Chartered PLC, and the Australia New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. have flocked  China  set  rurai operations, aiming  capitalize  Beijing  drive  boost incomes  the countryside Wali Street Journai,  Mar 2o12China Foreign banks share  banking sector assets  Reciprocai arrangements for foreign banks  develop regionai banks and participate  the equity  development banks Foreign ownership allowed     domestic banks, without controi. . yet more evidence  how hot Turkey  banking assets have become. Deals have multiplied over the past year. . the country  one  the few  Europe that  growing. Istanbui, Turkey  commerciai centre,  making  bid  become  financiai hub, with its own version  Canary Wharf being built  the Asian side  the Bosphorus. The Economist,  May 2o13A brief look  foreign bank participation across select emerging markets  PwCReferences  hundred smali steps report  the committee  financiai sector reforms, 2oo8, Planning Commission, Government  India Annuai Policy Statement for the Year 2oo9-, RBI Are Competitive Banking Systems More Stable? , Klaus Schaeck, Martin Cihak and Simon Wolfe, 2oo9, Journai  Money, Credit and Banking Asia and Pacific region economic outlook update, 2o13, IMF Aspects  Banking Sector Reforms  India, Prabir . Bhattacharya and . . Sivasubramanian, 2oo1, Economic and Politicai Weekly Bank regulation and supervision survey, 2o12, World Bank Discussion Paper- Presence  foreign banks  India, 2o11, RBI Evolution  Banking  India, Report  Currency and Finance, 2oo8, RBI Foreign Banks  Historicai Perspective, . Karunagaran, 2oo6, Economic and Politicai Weekly Foreign Banks  India Establishment, Operations and Challenges:  Reflected from the Records  the Reserve Bank  India, Ashok Kapoor, RBI Archives Globai Financiai Stability Report, 2o13, IMF   Time  Open   Foreign Banks? , . . Ram Mohan, 2oo8, Economic and Politicai Weekly Project Blue: Making sense   uncertain future, 2o12, PwC Report  the Nair Committee  Priority Sector Lending, 2o12, RBI Review   pamphlet entitled "Reasons for the establishment   new bank  India", 1836, India merchant, Hume Tracts The New Digitai Tipping Point 2o11, PwC The rise, progress, and present condition  banking  India, 1863, Cooke, Charles Northcote Banking Regulation Act, 1949 Banking Structure  India - The Way Forward, 2o13, RBI Deployment  White Labei ATMs WLAs, 2o12, RBI Financiai Regulation  Systemically Important NBFCs and Banks Relationship with them, 2oo6, RBI Foreign bank branches  India   September , 2o13, RBI Master Circular  Branch Authorisation, 2o13, RBI Reserve Bank  India Act, 1934 Roadmap for presence  Foreign Banks  India and Ownership and Governance  Private Sector banks, 2oo5, RBI Scheme for Setting   Wholly Owned Subsidiaries WOS  foreign banks  India, 2o13, RBI The Banking Laws Amendment Act 2o12, Gazette  India ABN Amro Bank takes over BankAm' retaii business for 2oo , 1999, Indian Express Barclays eyes India for its back-office jobs, 2o13, BPM Watch Deutsche Bank kicks off BPO operations, 2oo3, Rediff Money HSBC Sells Stakes  Two Indian Banks, 2o12, Wali Street Journai HSBC sells UTI Bank' .  stake for  638 , 2oo6, Business Standard Nations Bank Drives  Billion Merger:  New BankAmerica: Biggest  . . Banks, 1998, New York Times Rabobank Sells Stake  Yes Bank, 2o12, Wali Street Journai Standard Chartered Bank: Right  the money, 2o13, Business Today Vikram Pandit  Citigroup CEO, 2oo7, Rediff Money RBS deai  help Ratnakar Bank expand, improve brand visibility, 2o13, Business Standard Royai Bank  Scotland wins biggest Financiai Takeover, 2oo8, ABC News Rupee fali gives BPOs some relief from Philippines, 2o13, Times  India Wali Street crisis: Investment banks succumb  collapse  confidence, 2oo8, The Guardian White labei ATMs take banking  masses, 2o13, Indian Express Citibank http: www. online. citibank. .  press-room citi--india. htm Deutsche Bank https: www. deutsche-bank.    content ir_releases_2o11_3624. htm HDFC Bank http: www. hdfcbank. com aboutus generai timesbank_amalgamation. htm HSBC http: www. hsbc. com about-hsbc history,  Morgan https: www. jpmorgan. com pages jpmorgan   home Standard Chartered Bank http: www. standardchartered. com  resources globai- history-timeline index. htmi Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  How banks responded  our survey Methodology  interacted with and interviewed  foreign banks using  comprehensive questionnaire. Thirty-three questions were divided  the following five broad groups: Market environment Strategy and growth Technology Risk, regulation and taxes Human capitai  received relevant responses from most  the banks that  interviewed. However,  times, banks chose not  respond  some questions  were unable  provide accurate data. This has been noted where applicable. Results have been compiled and analysed  PwC using the weighted average method where applicable. The survey results have been appropriately complemented with views and insights shared  banks during our conversations. Recent developments and our point  view  themes have also been included under each section. Chapter   PwC Exhibit : Factors impacting the Indian banking industry Exhibit : Relative attractiveness  economies Section : Market environment Financiai service institutions are struggling  sustain their profitability and build  viable business modei  today  complex business environment. Banks  particular are rethinking their strategies and treading the path  innovation  order  gain  competitive edge   industry marked  changing consumer behaviour and increasing activism  regulatory and tax authorities. Which are the major factors that wili have  impact  the Indian banking industry and  the foreign banks?    surprise that the survey results indicate regulatory challenge  the foremost concern for foreign banks today, given the plethora  regulatory changes  home and host countries. This  followed closely  politicai and sociai stability. There   high levei  concern  increasing sociai inequality and unrest, but the greater concern comes from the apprehension  politicai instability. Uncertainty resulting from  potentiai lack  clear majority  any one politicai party  the upcoming elections underpins apprehension regarding the direction  policies and governance  the nation. Severai respondents also ranked competition among their top three concerns impacting the banking landscape. This assumes significance  the backdrop  new bank licences   given  NBFCs and industriai houses under the licensing policy announced  early 2o13. Has the perception  India   growth story changed over the last few years? Most  the respondents ranked China  the emerging investment destination, followed  South East Asia, Middle East and India. Interestingly,  per Choosing China: Improving the investment environment for multinationals,  survey  PwC and the China Development Research Foundation, launched  Beijing, more than half  the CEOs surveyed chose China above other major and emerging economies including Brazii, Russia, India and the . Most respondents, while acknowledging the importance  China also shared apprehensions about the sustainability  the China story and confidence  the India story  the long term. However, due  lack  short-term growth opportunity  India, the results were weighted  favour  other, faster growing economies. Source: PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis41  respondents rated regulatory change  the topmost concern for their bank.  said that politicai stability was their prime concern.   respondents ranked China  the most preferred investment destination.   respondents ranking south-east Asia and the Middle East  the most attractive. None  the respondents felt that India was the most attractive investment destination. Demographic change Increasing globalisation Politicai and sociai stability Regulatory changes Information and technologyCompetitionSociai and behaviourai change Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  What does your bank find the most difficult aspects  the Indian banking industry? The sensitivity  the regulatory environment and inability  differentiate are related  each other, with high- ranking politicai uncertainty arising from short-term worries related  the forthcoming election and the uncertainty  policy direction.  competition intensifies,  becomes imperative for financiai services providers  differentiate their offerings and garner  sticky client base. Banks are caught   pincer situation here,  the one hand, the number  corporates with internationally accepted credit and governance standards has not grown and  the other hand, regulatory expectations  retaii banking, liability side restrictions and financiai inclusion has led  commoditisation  offerings. The above parameter evolved out  our early conversations with banks. Some banks strongly felt that the culture  free service and the inability  price was  constraint  growing retaii banking. Given the limitations  branch expansion, some  the respondents felt that innovation with different distribution models using technology could   differentiator for foreign banks. Some banks also felt that differentiai licensing, when  happens, can help create the differentiator.  was interesting  note that building  loyai customer base ranked low  the challenge barometer, which indicates that  ali likelihood, foreign banks are confident  sustaining their share  customers.   respondents ranked regulatory environment  the most difficult aspect  the banking industry.  said politicai uncertainty was  key challenge.  conversation Although   true that India   large growth market, the macroeconomic, regulatory and policy environment make  difficult  harness the potentiai  this market. BRICs are slowly and steadily losing their attractiveness, with new economies such  Indonesia, Mexico, Turkey, Cambodia and Vietnam becoming attractive. Foreign investors faith  the certainty  politicai environment has reduced. China appears   the preferred destination  this point  time. India   important market  the region that cannot  ignored. Exhibit : Factors impacting the Indian banking industry Source: PwC analysis Regulatory environment Politicai uncertainity Risk management Building  loyai customer base Taxation and accounting frameworkCulture  free serviceCompetition from foreign and domestic banks Organisation and the inability  differentiate  PwCSection : Strategy and growth Some  the key factors that business leaders need  keep  mind while formulating their business strategies are sociai and demographic trends, changes  customer behaviour and preferences, emerging technologies and their use, changes  the regulatory front, etc. Business models are undergoing  continuai revamp  accommodate changes  the fast-paced environment and business expansion plans are being tailored  match the market scenario.  the context  new domestic banks  the horizon,  was not surprising that   the respondents expected status quo and another  expected decrease  market share.   interesting that most respondents brought  the issue  realignment  the India strategy   more offshore funding  view  the liberalised ECB norms and the ease  operation  dealing with Indian corporates from offshore. Respondents who were positive about market share increasing were  mere . Subsequent  our data analysis, the RBI released the framework for setting  wholly owned subsidiaries WOS  foreign banks  India. However, while the goalpost seems clear, the details stili need   evaluated  order  assess the impact these guidelines wili have  the short-term. The recently released WOS guidelines provide foreign banks with the option  open new branches, thus increasing the depth  their business  India, list  Indian exchanges and enter into   with private sector banks, subject  the overali investment limit  . Although the banking industry  expected   through  phase  consolidation, most respondents said that they would strengthen their presence  the country  way  organic growth focussing  their topline growth and improve profitability. Some respondents felt that  was not  easy task  grow organically  markets such  India and inorganic strategy would  preferred. However, there can   compromise  controi  case  inorganic growth. Given the current voting rights cap  , immediate interest  inorganic growth was not  high  expected. Some  the foreign bank participants were open  both strategies- grow organically  weli  through acquisitions.  per the new guidelines, foreign banks that choose  adopt the WOS modei wili  permitted  enter into mergers and acquisitions with Indian banks, which may present wider prospects for inorganic growth. However, this wili  subject not only  regulatory approvai for the transaction, but also   assessment  the overali foreign bank participation and its success  Indian banking sector. Respondents strongly felt that there   absence   levei playing field for foreign banks  India. While they showed  understanding  the facilitative environment  terms  access  products  clients, the perception  non levei playing field was largely driven  constraints  branch growth. Many  the foreign banks that have entered the country post-2oo9 feei that they can never match   the distribution strength  Indian banks  for that matter foreign banks that have grown over the years  different regulatory regimes. While the finai guidelines  the operations  foreign banks  India are expected  bring them more  less  the same footing  domestic banks, providing them with near nationai treatment; foreign banks may have other issues relating  priority sector lending and inclusion  detailed  Chapter . The WOS guidelines released recently have come  step closer  providing foreign banks with  levei playing field    par with domestic banks  terms  branch network and access  locai markets. However, the same comes with greater commitment  financiai inclusion. Exhibit : Wili the aggregate market share  foreign banks  India . locai banks continue  increase, stay the same  decrease? Exhibit : Given the opportunity, what would  your bank  primary method  expansion  India? Exhibit :  you think foreign banks  India operate   levei playing field?  change Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  Exhibit : Perception  India strategy Exhibit : Major revenue growth areasHow does your head office perceive the India strategy? India emerged   major destination for the outsourcing  banking activities, starting with the ubiquitous cali centres  the 199os.  capitalised  its inherent advantages   large English-speaking population, cost competitiveness vis- -vis the West and its reputation  the emerging technology giant. Over time, the cost competitiveness has reduced due  increasing power costs, escalating wages and competition from other geographies such  Philippines and China. With better recognition  the quality  talent available  India and the emergence  new technologies such  sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud SMAC, the outsourced activities moved  the value chain. Doing proprietary work  these areas rather than utilising the third-party channei has proved   more effective and profitable for banks. Also, over time, the business modei  banks has evolved from  service-delivery modei  undertaking core operations, and routine and standardised work being outsourced   firms, which also reflects  the changing profile  captives. Although the captive strategy   important part  the India strategy for most foreign banks,  strong vote towards India being  important market for their products and services also reflects the recognition  the potentiai  this economy  the long-term strategies  banks. What were your major revenue growth areas  the past  months? The results were not surprising. The most profitable areas  growth for foreign banks  India have been earnings from foreign exchange and corporate lending. While deposits and investment products were found    area  growth, private banking emerged  the least area  focus, reflecting the plain vanilla nature  the wealth management market and the AML and financiai fraud challenges.  expected, generating foreign currency deposits from remittance corridors   important part  the deposit strategy. Source: PwC analysis Source: PwC analysisAround   respondents perceived India    huge market for their bank  products and services. Interestingly, perception  India   low-cost tech - nology support for globai operations ranked very low for most respondents.  respondents agreed that foreign exchange and corporate lending were major areas contributing  growth  the foreign banks. Contrary  the trend  shutting down captive centres back  2oo8 and 2oo9, most  the foreign banks are now focussing  scaling  their operations   - panding their captive bases here  India. The captives are slowly and steadily gaining criticai importance  doing quality work and proprietary assignments  investment banking, consumer banking, risk manage - ment, anti money laundering, transaction services, etc. Private bankingCash managementFixed income  PwC Exhibit : Products gaining importance Exhibit : Products  the retaii banking industrySource: PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis82  respondents foresee that products such  trade finance and ECB wili strengthen  the market - place, followed  development  the debt capitai markets. Foreign banks operating  India are perceived  create synergies between wealth management and investment banking. What wholesale products  you see becoming increasingly important  the Indian banking industry  the next three years? Most respondents felt that trade finance and ECB were going   important over the coming years, followed  debt capitai markets. The offshore book comprising trade finance and ECB   many ways the most distinctive feature for foreign banks and one that sets them apart from domestic banks. For many smali foreign banks, the expansion  onshore business  dependent  the quality and quantity  leverage that the onshore branch provides for this core client group. With more globalisation and higher trade, this  likely  continue. This expansion wili continue  help foreign banks  another area  traditionai strength, . . treasury products. Almost ali respondents felt that India  need for massive infrastructure and the policy initiatives around creating conducive financing products wili lead  the development  debt markets and segments  banking such  structured finance and project finance wili grow for banks  India. Urbanisation, greater inclusion  non-urban centres  the mainstream economy and  move towards  less-cash economy wili ali provide  high degree  opportunities  cash management, another area  strength for many foreign banks. Which product areas  you see becoming increasingly important  the Indian retaii banking industry  the next three years? Changing societai norms, including  move towards nuclear families and the trend  buy homes  long tenure mortgages, coupled with  young population wili make the home loan market  consistent growth area for  generation  bankers  India. More young entrepreneurs and second- and third-generation wealthy clients wili mean better opportunities for banks targeting high-net-worth individuals through innovative products such  art that diversify their portfolio. Surprisingly, most respondents felt that credit cards were not  growth product, based  past experience and the hugely cash based nature  the economy.  your pursuit  growth, which customer segments wili you expand over the next three years? The client base  most foreign banks  concentrated around leading multinationai corporations, large financiai Exhibit : Expansion  customer segments Source: PwC analysisDebt capitai marketsNPA and performing loan tradingTrade finance ECBHNWI and private banking Medium enterprises Locai corporations Self employed professionals Salaried employees Ultra high networth individuai Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 23institutions and ultra high-net-worth individuals. Therefore,  was hardly surprising  find them voted  future growth segments.  was reassuring  see that locai corporates came  close second not only   indicator  the clout  locai corporations, but also   clear shift  strategic thinking  behalf  foreign banks operating  the country. Few respondents felt that their banks would continue  primarily target customers from their home countries and their constituents. Most revealed  open mind  dealing with locai corporations and SMEs. However, most also expressed concerns  credit risk while dealing with micro and smali enterprises, which   part  the future growth strategy under priority sector norms. Section III: Technology  the initiai phase  their growth, foreign banks differentiated themselves  the emerging markets  the basis  better technology and processes, leading  higher efficiency and the ability  generate improved profitability. New private sector banks have been quick  catch  and often had the advantage  leapfrogging with new, integrated technology platforms. What made  worse for many foreign banks was that they were essentially set   branches  different verticals operating within their globai banks, with different technology platforms with many manuai workarounds  generate locai reporting and customer data. The Automated Dataflow projects being undertaken  banks   result  regulatory guidelines  2o11- and  trend among recent entrants  set  locai platforms may change the way foreign banks use technology once again. There  little doubt that technology  going   the gamechanger for businesses today, more  for financiai institutions dealing with challenges  enhanced regulatory reporting and distribution and service  demanding customers. The world has gone digitai, with the internet, mobile, sociai media, analytics and cloud making their presence felt  every aspect  business.  technologicai development gains speed and clout, the threat  organisations While globai corporations wili continue   the main customer segment, locai corporations and locai SMEs are very much  the agenda for foreign banks operating  India unwilling  embrace  becomes acute. Going digitai implies that financiai institutions can engage more closely with the younger generation who are tech- savvy and look  the online channei for resolving most  their queries. The online channei also showcases customer  user preferences which can  used  financiai institutions for business intelligence. The rapid growth  mobiles, smartphones and tablets offers  opportunity  empower sales channels  reach markets with less penetration. Technology  India has been responsible for overcoming physicai and geographicai barriers,  automating processes, enabling branchless banking and facilitating reai-time service delivery across the financiai services sector. The boom  mobile technology  expected  play  important role  taking banking  India  -banked population. Being low cost and affordable,  continues   one  the criticai pillars supporting the overali structure  the financiai services sector. Which  the following  you think wili lead  innovation  banking? Disruptive technologies  today  times have  huge role  play  accelerating the growth  the banking sector. The boom  sociai networking can  leveraged   great extent  banks  increase their customer base and customer engagement. Sociai collaboration networks when used internally can help build  dynamic and creative work environment. They can enable organisations  instantly perceive the pulse  criticai organisationai issues and enable virtuai workplace solutions. Exhibit : Factors leading  innovative banking Source: PwC analysis   respondents agreed that disruptive technologies wili  criticai  drive innovation  the banking domain.  respondents felt that risk and regulatory requirements wili drive innovation  the industry. Sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud SMAC  the new buzzword across the banking landscape, professed    huge catalyst for growth  the banking sector   whole.  PwC Which  the following areas  the most criticai for you, requiring technology investment   priority basis? Not surprisingly,  large majority  felt that risk and regulatory was one area where they needed technology investments   priority basis. Such investment  already happening  response  the Automated Dataflow requirements and  expected  lead  consistency  regulatory reporting. Product innovation and enhancing customer experience also featured high  the technology agenda  banks. This  hardly surprising  technology has the capacity  deliver  enhanced user experience, reducing the time for service delivery, bringing  efficiency  processes, and overali, providing personalised attention  customers. Customer relationship management CRM helps draw increased revenues from customers   allows for the utilisation  available customer information  seli product suites across segments. CRM applications also give room  customer feedback which can help  customer retention  the face  increased competition. Surprisingly, only   the respondents felt that technology can   driver  expand and increase reach. This could   reflection  the rigidities  the regulatory architecture around digitai growth  banks  the absence  brick-and- mortar branches limitation  business correspondents geographicai location, etc. Exhibit : Areas  investment  technology Exhibit :  you have  digitai strategy  place? Source: PwC analysis Subsequent  investing  risk and regulatory requirements,   respondents felt that customer experience, service delivery and product innovation were areas that investment should  focussed . Around   respondents confirmed that  digitai strategy had been put  place  tackle the challenges  the business environment, while quite  large number, around , also said that they had not thought about  strategy  yet. This could   reflection  the fact that most foreign banks are not really present  the retaii segment and  not have immediate plans  enter . Risk and regulatory Data governance Expansion and reach Product innovation Financiai reportingCustomer experience and service delivery Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 25Exhibit : Does the implementation  Basei III  India impact your bank  capitai? Section : Risk, regulation and taxes  has become vitai for financiai institutions  look beyond pure compliance concerns and understand how regulatory developments wili impact product and business portfolios, how they wili determine the allowable cost structure and ultimately the strategy  the organisation.  strong regulatory framework involving effective liquidity management, enhanced risk coverage reducing leverage and the ability  identify systemic risk has become  necessary pillar  strategy for banks.  India, regulatory focus has been twofold, reducing systemic risk  aligning regulatory agenda with the globai reform agenda and ensuring spread  banking  this highly underpenetrated market. While the globai reform agenda converges with most  the home countries requirements, there are locai variations   factored . Also, non-convertibility  the rupee and attendant requirement for banks  invest  compliance infrastructure for crossborder transactions add  costs.  banks deai with the implications  subsidiarisation guidelines, the need  comprehend impact  intra-group transactions, tax and transfer pricing implications and locai ownership  decision-making and risk wili place further stress  the senior management  foreign banks  India  weli   the head offices. Basei III guidelines are being adopted  Indian banks   phased manner, ensuring that banks wili  adequately capitalised  manage ali risks. These guidelines seek  enhance the quality  capitai  increasing the requirement for equity capitai, ensuring that banks are better equipped  deai with financiai downturns, should they arise. Foreign banks typically operate  high levels  capitai adequacy and that should  expected  limit the impact  Basei III  India. However, the vote may reflect anxiety  account   lack  clarity  some implementation aspects  NSFR and LCR and the fact that many foreign banks have high ratio  off-balance sheet business. Please rank the following factors according  the impact you think they  have  the Indian banking industry and  the foreign banks.  asked respondents  categorise the various types  risks into high, medium  low. Macro-economic risk and risk arising out  changing policies was ranked very high followed  regulatory risk. The profitability factor came out   the next concern, which indicates that foreign banks  India are concerned about the sustainability  their business modei  the long run. The quality  risk management and corporate governance  the industry largely  the client end appeared   serious concerns  weli. Exhibit : Ranking  risks  IndiaIn the absence  complete convergence between globai and locai requirements and different standards for the recognition  instruments and counterparties, foreign banks may face added complexity  compliance with capitai requirements.  PwCWhich regulatory requirements pose difficulty  complexity  conducting your business? For most  the foreign banks, the new mandate  priority sector lending and financiai inclusion guidelines seem   posing  challenge. Followed  this were other concerns such  KYC, AML norms, cross-border dealings, single  group borrower limits, etc. The RBI has recently revised the guidelines with reference  priority sector lending for foreign banks, bringing the mandate   for banks with more than  branches from  erstwhile . This needs   executed over  period  five years. The portfolio  priority sector lending comprises agriculture, MSMEs, education, housing, export credit and others that require  different business and distribution modei. Almost ali participants felt the need  continue with export finance   priority sector. Many felt that infrastructure development should  given the same status. The Indian market witnessed the first rupee denominated credit default swap trade  December 2o11. The initiation  credit derivative represents  form  market completion.  creating  off- balance sheet, forward and contingent markets for credit risk, credit derivatives perform  classic market completion role.  essence, this means they make provisions  achieve efficiency gains. Credit default swaps can  actively used  the globai market for better product structuring, hedging trading instruments, better asset management and the management  regulatory and economic capitai. Although   the foreign banks  spoke  seemed  believe that lack  credit default swaps was not  handicap  their business, they also highlighted challenges such  lack  knowledge about the product, lack  pricing data,  shallow corporate bond market, regulatory constraints and lack  adequate systems and infrastructure  facilitate trading. Exhibit :  your opinion, wili the proposed guideline  subsidiarisation  foreign banks provide  more levei playing field? For foreign banks, most Indian clients are rated  -  worse,  contrast  which most Indian banks view the locai corporate entities  AAA rated entities. The globai risk treatment  Indian entities inhibits the capitai available  fund lending activities  the country. For most banks, initiating rurai credit  India  likely    unacceptable idea  their credit managers  home since this does not form part  their organic internationai banking strategies. Most respondents think that the new guidelines  the subsidiarisation  foreign banks wili lead  providing  levei playing field for banks, although   respondents said that this kind  near nationai treatment  foreign banks may not provide them with opportunities similar  domestic banks. Many respondents believed that while they had  limited strategy  present, their head offices would  willing  look   expansion plan  the future, depending upon macroeconomic and policy conditions. Exhibit :  you consider the lack  credit default swaps    handicap? Exhibit :  the Indian market ready  roli out more sophisticated financiai products? Respondents seem   positive  the outlook  the Indian market, with  saying that the Indian market  ready for more complex products. This could   function  the fact that foreign banks largely deai with the top hundred Indian corporates and multinationai clients, where the understanding  sophisticated products may  high.  strong  feei that India  stili not ready  grasp complex financiai products, primarily because  the low levels  financiai literacy and lack  training  distributors  financiai products giving rise  fears  mis-selling, lack  training  distributors  financiai products, etc. While the clientele  foreign banks may have achieved greater sophistication, the Indian market  not perceived   ready for sophisticated financiai products. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  Exhibit : Most challenging regulatory requirements Exhibit : Please rank the following based  their relevance  your decision  incorporate locally, with one having the most relevance  four having the leastThe main objective  the RBI  issuing guidelines  the subsidiarisation  foreign banks   ring fence foreign banks operations  India from any adverse shocks  home.  the bargain,  does somewhat levei the playing field for foreign banks and render near nationai treatment  them. Many  the foreign banks remain unclear about how WOS  going  play out for them, with priority sector lending and rurai braches posing  challenge. Acquisition targets  India that are primarily promoter driven and command high valuation may also pose  challenge for foreign banks aspiring  use this opportunity. Lack  alignment  voting rights with shareholding was  concern expressed  many participants.   the respondents said that the decision  incorporate locally would  primarily  that they can get near nationai treatment  par with locai banks.  said that this would give them  opportunity  participate  increased   activities. Single group borrower limits Income recognition, asset classification and provisioning  the event  locai subsidiarisation, what would  the major challenges for your bank? Clearly, the inclusion code  yet   cracked  foreign banks. While the largest  them have submitted plans  the RBI for  five-year transition, market conditions and lack  opportunities  participate through partnerships  other instruments are significant handicaps. Rurai branches, for many banks are unacceptable cost centres  branches not only need  fulfii locai regulatory requirements  connectivity and brick and mortar presence, but also home country branch specifications that are driven  globai standards. Yet, many banks shared examples  their efforts  create outreach  difficult geographies  their home countries using technology and partnerships. However, most expressed concerns around human safety, finding the right talent and lack  power  connectivity; ali increasing operationai costs. For banks with  definite strategy  grow  banks with more than  branches, agriculturai lending requirements make rurai branches  integrai part  the strategy, but there are  clear answers yet  how  best balance the risks and rewards  such  portfolio. Exhibit : Major challenge  the event  subsidiarisation Exhibit : Challenges  terms  regulatory environment Source: PwC analysis   respondents said that lack  branches was the topmost concern for them.  saying that policy push for retaii and universai banking and legai recourse  recovery  debt posed challenges. What are the challenges faced  your bank  terms  the regulatory environment?  present, foreign banks operate  India  branches  the parent bank. Currently, permission for opening  branches  foreign banks  India  guided  India  commitment  the WTO  allow  new branches   year. Foreign banks  India feei that the restrictive branch licensing policy has been  handicap  implementing business plans. The release  the scheme for conversion  wholly owned subsidiaries providing the route  WOS  banks looking for branch growth may not change this perception  most banks are not ambitious about growing large retaii network for branches, but would like  grow their branch networks  service their niche client segment. Perception  risk and regulation  foreign banks  India  differentiated licence regime wili  optimai for foreign banks  many  them want  remain with their limited modei and are not  source  risk  they have  presence  plans  grow  retaii segment. The twin goals  depositor protection and push towards retaii banking seem    conflict  most niche banks would  reconciled  give  access  retaii deposits  they could operate   niche segment. The recent risk based supervision approach has been welcomed  the industry,   may imply the end  annuai -site inspections which are demanding and often not commensurate with the limited business modei. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 29Tax perspectives  large number  respondents, roughly  find the tax environment   challenging  compared  other economies, while  said that  was extremely challenging  deai with tax laws  India. Around   the respondents also felt that transfer pricing authorities were very aggressive  their approach. Exhibit : Compared  the other emerging economies, tax environment  India Exhibit : Are the assessments done  transfer pricing authorities too aggressive? Exhibit : Which  the following pose  challenge  your bank? Exhibit :  you consider tax dispute resolution  mechanism   efficient? The most challenging aspect from the tax perspective   deai with the withholding tax  cross-border transactions and taxes  head office payments. Moreover, most foreign banks  not consider the tax dispute mechanism   efficient. Although the Reserve Bank  India issued  recent circular  clarify the stance  the government  tax treatment  locai subsidiaries and conversion  branch into subsidiary, apprehension  future action have not been put  rest. This  consistent with the current situation where most banks have ongoing tax litigation going back  many years. Subsidiarisation and different rules  home and host countries also create challenges around transfer pricing. For example, the benefit that the WOS  likely  derive from the parentai guarantee wili need   evaluated using transfer pricing principles  determine arms length charge for the guarantee. Other transactions between the WOS and its parent  affiliates wili also need  satisfy Indian transfer pricing regulations. Section : Human capitai Human capitai  recognised   the most important element  any service organisation. India  perceived  host  large talent pooi that  young and weli educated and compares favourably  cost parameters. However, the growth  the banking industry and the entry  new players has also led  what  perceived    war for talent. For many years, foreign banks operating  India were employers  choice for the elite and had first preference  the best educationai institutions. However, gradually, with other sectors  the economy doing weli, that  gradually changing. Many smali foreign banks with low brand recognition compete  the same space  large globai brands and extremely visible Indian brands and find  difficult  source quality talent  good prices.  PwCStarting   positive note, most foreign banks revealed that the levei  staff turnover  their banks was less than .  minuscule  said that staff turnover exceeded . Many foreign banks operating  India are confident that they wili have the human capitai  execute this strategy. Banks also have strong faith  the talent pooi available  India, considering   par with globai standards. Most foreign banks consider the talent pooi  India   highly skilled and relatively cheaper than most other emerging economies. However, many banks also felt that there was increasing pressure  pay more for quality  resources that was not necessarily the best. The other good thing Exhibit : Which staff functions have the highest hiring priority  2o13-? Exhibit : Over the next three  five years, wili you have the people  deliver your business strategy? Exhibit :  your opinion,  the quality  talent  India equivalent  that  the rest  the world? Exhibit : Would you say that talent  India  more expensive than similar emerging markets? Exhibit :  what degree have you needed  adapt your home culture and processes  provide the flexibility  doing business  India? Exhibit : What was the levei  staff turnover  your bank  2o12-? from the perspective  human capitai  that these foreign banks have not had  make much   change  way  culture, considering Indians   flexible and adaptable. Lastly,   the respondents agreed that most  the hiring would   the area  relationship managers  the corporate domain. Risk management also came    key area  investment where specialised expertise  required  banks. This was interestingly  contrast with many other markets where hiring strategies  present are more focussed around compliance and AML functions. Most banks also feei that there   need for succession planning and efficient talent management. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection  Appendices Survey respondents Thirty two foreign banks participated  the survey: . Abu Dhabi Commerciai Bank . Antwerp Diamond Bank . . . ANZ Bank Ltd . Bank  America . Bank  Bahrain Kuwait BSC . Bank  Ceylon . Bank  Nova Scotia . Bank  Tokyo Mistubishi UFJ . Barclays Bank Plc. . Bank Internasionai Indonesia Maybank . BNP Paribas . Citibank . . . Commonwealth Bank  Australia . Credit Agricole Corporate Investment Bank15. Credit Suisse .  . Development Bank  Singapore . FirstRand Bank Ltd . HSBC Ltd . . . Morgan Chase Bank . . . JSC VTB Bank . Mizuho Corporate Bank . Nationai Australia Bank . Rabobank Internationai . Royai bank  Scotland . Sberbank . Societe Generale . Standard Chartered Bank . Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation . United Overseas Bank . Westpac Banking CorporationChapter  Two banks that participated  the survey specifically requested that their names are not disclosed  PwCList  banks    March 2o13 Branches Capitai and reserves Deposits Advances  Bank Limited  751 1214 625 Abu Dhabi Commerciai Bank Ltd  3274 7o43 5198 American Express Banking Corp.  76o4 6747 171o3 Antwerp Diamond Bank   23o2 795 76o3 Australia And New Zealand Banking Group Limited  11324 25o92 23767 Bank Internasionai Indonesia  2138   Bank  America . . And . .  4516o 7378o 7623o Bank  Bahrain and Kuwait . . .  2886 6958 6926 Bank  Ceylon  1757 1194 999 Bank  Nova Scotia  1785o 6o556 77661 Barclays Bank Plc  5541o 5o632 84723 BNP Paribas  22819 55797 77373 Chinatrust Commerciai Bank  16o3 1927 2765 Citibank .   173794 665594 52o355 Commonwealth Bank  Australia  1692 513 1652 Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank  17593 5963 24o42 Credit Suisse   13o66 4187 455o DBS Bank Ltd.  293o3 154876 138581 Deutsche Bank   78913 2o7943 223741 Firstrand Bank Ltd  3o33 713 2594 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corpn. Ltd.  151958 56866o 357o87 HSBC Bank Oman . . . .  2229 1488  Industriai And Commerciai Bank  China  4818 1771 3372 JPMorgan Chase Bank Nationai Association  57535 1o3687 53445 JSC VTB Bank  1114  885 Krung Thai Bank Public Company Limited  491 1835 16o Mashreq Bank Psc  12o8 1194 547 Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd  35877 17434 55188 Nationai Australia Bank  153o  1636 Rabobank Internationai  6139 834 5899 Sberbank  1443  37o Shinhan Bank  5725 144o4 12o61 Societe Generale  8571 13826 17569 Sonali Bank   398 184 Standard Chartered Bank 1oo 191531 62oo17 619543 State Bank  Mauritius Ltd  6o62 6oo9 815o Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation  1o834   The Bank  Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd  34o23 41464 68395 The Royai Bank  Scotland . .  28319 127494 125339 UBS   2o675 25575 9741 United Overseas Bank Ltd  1559  358 Westpac  8172   Woori Bank  1636 2158 329 Grand totai 334 1o73819 2879995 2636797 Figures  INR million Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 33Banks Background Arab Bangladesh Bank Limited  Bank Limited   Bangladesh-based private sector bank, having its overseas office  Mumbai. Established   December 1981  the first private sector bank  Bangladesh,  started its operation from  Aprii 1982. The Mumbai branch  the  Bank Limited  the sole overseas branch  India. Abu Dhabi Commerciai Bank Ltd ADCB India began operations  198o with the objective  further developing Indo-UAE trade relations and catering  the remittance and savings needs  non-resident Indians working  the UAE and other countries  the GCC region. ADCB has been  India serving these niche segments through two branches  Mumbai and Bengaluru. American Express Banking Corp American Express Bank Ltd India operates   subsidiary  American Express Bank Ltd which was founded  1921. Its two centres  India are located  Gurgaon and New Delhi. The Indian operations  American Express revolve around the back office customer services operations, apart from the credit card business for the domestic market. The American Express campus  Gurgaon  the largest employee location  head count for the group and supports the business continuity objectives  the American Express group. Antwerp Diamond Bank  ADB Mumbai  the maiden branch  Antwerp Diamond Bank   India, operating since June 2oo2, and currently located  Opera House  Mumbai.  gives support  the Indian diamond trade and industry.  lends its banking services and grants commerciai credits  diamond importers, wholesalers and exporters, diamond cutting and polishing factories, jewellery manufacturers and exporters, diamond and jewellery traders. Australia And New Zealand Banking Group LimitedANZ commenced banking operations  India with the opening  its first branch  Mumbai  June 2o11 after receipt  the banking licence from the Reserve Bank  India  October 2o1o. ANZ  operations  India are  part  ANZ  globai network, comprising  Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited ANZ  Mumbai and ANZ Operations and Technology and ANZ Support Services India  Bangalore. The India branch supports corporate  weli  institutionai clients  India and provides greater access  the Indian markets for globai network customers. Bank Internasionai Indonesia BII commenced operating its Mumbai branch  2o13. Headquartered  Indonesia,    subsidiary  the Maybank Group, one  the largest banks  ASEAN  totai assets and market capitalisation.  provides trade, foreign exchange and related banking products and services  Indian companies with business interests  the ASEAN region and vice versa.  also caters  Maybank Group  customers and their counterparties for their banking requirements  India. Bank  America . . And . . The Bank  America commenced operations  India through its Mumbai branch  1964. The bank offers  range  financiai products and solutions  Indian corporates, multinationals, multilaterai agencies and foreign government entities and financiai institutions.   headquartered  Mumbai, with five branch offices across Mumbai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru. The globai merger  Merrili Lynch with  subsidiary  the Bank  America Corporation added  product suite  services through DSP Merrili Lynch,  investment banking, securities and wealth management services firm. Bank  Bahrain And Kuwait . . . The Bank  Bahrain and Kuwait BBK was incorporated  Bahrain  March 1971. BBK opened branches  India  1986   scheduled commerciai bank. There are three branches  India,  Mumbai, Hyderabad and Aluva  Kerala. Bank  Ceylon BOC  owned  the government  Sri Lanka and has  network  3o1 locai and three overseas branches. The bank started operations  Chennai  1995. Bank  Nova Scotia Scotia Bank was established  Nova Scotia  1832. Today, the bank and its affiliates offer  broad range  products and services, including personai, commerciai, corporate  weli  investment banking services   million customers across  countries.  has presence  India with branches  Mumbai, New Delhi, Coimbatore, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The Bank  Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ufj Ltd Bank  Tokyo Mitsubishi  one  the five primary operating companies  Mitsubishi UFJ Financiai Group MUFG. MUFG  services include commerciai banking, trust banking, securities, credit cards, consumer finance, asset management, leasing and severai other fields  financiai services. BTMU began operations  Mumbai, the financiai capitai  India,  1953   predecessor company  the Bank  Tokyo from  iconic building  Fort, the business district. The bank has four branches  India,  Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai and Neemrana  Rajasthan, and  the largest Japanese bank  India. Barclays Bank Plc Barclays,  British multinationai banking and financiai services company headquartered  London, has had its presence  India for nearly three decades, with  investment banking division and personai and corporate banking services  Mumbai, Pune, New Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Globally, Barclays has operations  retaii, wholesale and investment banking,  weli  wealth management, mortgage lending and credit cards  over  countries and territories and has around  million customers.  PwCBNP Paribas BNP Paribas set- its operations  India 15o years ago  Kolkata.  was the first French bank and the second foreign bank  have  set-  the country. The bank has branches  eight major cities  Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Pune. BNP Paribas India Solutions Private Limited   subsidiary  BNP Paribas , set   2oo5  provide  and back- office processing services, infocentre and data warehousing, with  major focus  capitai markets information technologies, for the BNP Paribas group. Chinatrust Commerciai Bank Established  1996  New Delhi, Chinatrust Commerciai Bank CTCB,  private sector bank  Taiwan, has its presence  India   scheduled bank. The bank has completed more than  years  successfui operations  India. Chinatrust established its first branch  New Delhi  Aprii 1996 and opened its second branch  Sriperumbudur Chennai  June 2o12. Citibank .  Citibank began operations  India  19o2  Kolkata.  offers consumers and institutions  broad range  financiai products and services, including consumer banking and credit, corporate and investment banking, securities brokerage, transaction services and wealth management. The bank operates  fuli-service branches   cities across the country providing services  more than , ooo smali and mid-sized companies across India. Commonwealth Bank  Australia The CBA started its operations  India  2oo4 with  representative office  Bengaluru, offering trade finance services  clients doing business with Australia. Subsequently,  launched its fuli-fledged operations  its Mumbai branch  2o1o. The Mumbai branch provides  range  savings accounts, loans, money transfers and internationai trade finance services for customers  India.  also offers  range  NRI products for Indians living  Australia. Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment BankCrdit Agricole CIB,  leading retaii banking group  France, has been  India since 1981, and  located  Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. From these five branches,  also deals with the large markets  Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Baroda.  offers  comprehensive range  products and services, tailored  the needs  Indian companies, multinationai companies and financiai institutions.  also offers its customers  wide range  products  weli  services  terms  cash management and working capitai facilities. Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group    Switzerland-based multinationai financiai services holding company headquartered  Zurich. After entering India  2oo9, Credit Suisse provides  wide array  investment banking  weli  securities services with offices  Mumbai and New Delhi. This includes  fuli range  equity underwriting and financiai advisory solutions  Indian corporates  weli   multinationai companies looking  build their presence  the Indian market. DBS Bank Ltd DBS was established  1968  the Development Bank  Singapore. Headquartered and listed  Singapore, DBS has over four million customers, and also has  growing presence  the three key Asian axes  growth, Greater China, Southeast Asia and South Asia. The bank initially entered India   representative office  1994, and opened its maiden branch  1995. Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank   German bank headquartered  Frankfurt.  has around , ooo employees worldwide, across  countries. Deutsche Bank  India   fully-integrated financiai services provider  Indian corporate, institutionai and individuai clients. Deutsche Bank has been  India since 198o and  one  the larger foreign banks present  the country. Firstrand Bank Ltd FirstRand Bank India   branch  FirstRand Banking Group South Africa. FirstRand Bank  the first bank from Africa   granted  fuli-scale commerciai banking licence  India.  has commenced its banking operations  India since Aprii 2oo9 and currently has one branch  Mumbai. Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp LtdHSBC  origins  India dates back  1853, when the Mercantile Bank  India was established  Mumbai. The parent company, HSBC Holdings plc   British multinationai banking and financiai services company headquartered  London.  India,  offers  comprehensive suite  world-class products and services  its corporate and commerciai banking clients  also   fast growing personai banking customer base. The bank also has over , ooo active commerciai banking customers  India, including proprietors, partnerships, clubs and associations, incorporated businesses and publicly quoted companies. HSBC Bank Oman . . . . HSBC Bank Oman . . .  was the first 1oo Omani-owned commerciai bank  the Sultanate  Oman and today  has the largest network  branches  Oman, including  branches  the country and four overseas branches  Mumbai and Cochin India and Karachi and Lahore Pakistan. Industriai and Commerciai Bank  ChinaThe Industriai and Commerciai Bank  China opened its first branch  India  Mumbai.  officially entered the Indian banking industry  the first representative  Chinese mainland banks and was granted the finai licence  the RBI   May 2o11. The branch engages  comprehensive banking business, including corporate banking, retaii banking, and investment banking. JPMorgan Chase Bank Nationai AssociationJPMorgan  presence  India dates back  1922. Mumbai  one  JPMorgan  largest locations outside the  and serves   regionai hub. India   important focus for JPMorgan  expansion  the Asia-Pacific region. The lines  business include the investment bank, the globai corporate bank, private equity, asset management and treasury and securities service. JPMorgan has  large globai service centre  India that  rapidly expanding  scope and size. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 35JSC VTB Bank JSC VTB Bank, located  New Delhi   Russian-owned internationai bank present across  countries.  started its operations  India  the year 2oo8, with its maiden branch  New Delhi. Offering assistance  fund-based and non-fund based advances, which include term loans for creation  assets, export and import guarantee, documentary credits, packing credit, post-shipment loans, and other corporate banking services. Krung Thai Bank Public Company LimitedFounded  1966, Krung Thai Bank operates 511 domestic and  foreign branches and representative offices worldwide  2oo6.   largest shareholders are from the public sector with the Ministry  Finance holding .  percent and the Financiai Institutions Development Fund .  percent. Mashreq Bank Psc Mashreq Bank Psc provides banking and financiai services  the UAE  weli  internationally.    relatively new entrant  the Indian banking industry.  has its head office  Mumbai. The bank offers fast and easy money transfers  India. Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd MHCB   important arm  the Mizuho Financiai Group.   considered   the second largest financiai services provider  Japan. MHCB  essentially  corporate and investment bank, formed  merging the corporate and investment banking divisions  Fuji Bank and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank with the Industriai Bank  Japan. Today, the capitai strength  the Mizuho Corporate Bank stands  , 4o4, o65 million JPY.  India,  has opened its branches  the cities  Mumbai and New Delhi, with the office  Mumbai being the head office. Nationai Australia Bank NAB has been present  Asia since the late 196os, commencing operations with  representative office  Tokyo. Its Mumbai office was opened recently  2o12,  strengthen its business and customer base  Asia. NAB operates through , 75o branches and service centres and employs over , ooo staff globally. Currently, NAB operates  India, Hong Kong, China, Singapore and Japan and Indonesia. Rabobank Internationai Rabobank Group,  leading food and agribusiness bank, has been operating  India since 1998. Presently,  operates  Rabobank Internationai, with its first branch and corporate headquarters located  Mumbai, Rabo India Finance,  non-banking finance company NBFC and Rabo India Securities, the investment banking arm  the group and provides specialised products and services.  addition, Rabobank  one  the sponsors  the India Agribusiness Fund, the 12o million USD food and agriculture sector private equity fund  India. The fund  sponsored with   share  the committed capitai. The Royai Bank  Scotland . . The RBS Group   large internationai banking and financiai services company, headquartered  Edinburgh. RBS has been  India since 1921, bringing along with  capabilities  debt capitai markets, internationai transaction services, foreign exchange and rates,  weli  providing balance sheet advisory and structuring. Currently, the retaii and commerciai banking operations  India  undergoing  consolidation. The bank wili consolidate its presence into eight business hubs namely Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi-NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Pune, and Vadodara.   expected that this process wili  completed  the end  2o13. Sberbank Sberbank Rossii OAO   Russia-based commerciai bank. Sberbank started its India operations  2o1o.  provides  range  corporate  weli  retaii banking services, such  payments and transfers, currency exchange, credit cards, travei cheques, mutuai funds, precious metai trading, deposits, brokerage services and many others. Shinhan Bank Shinhan Bank  India operations were established  May, 1996 with the opening  its first branch  Mumbai.  now has branches  New Delhi and Vellore. Since establishing the first branch  Mumbai, the bank has been posting profits  each year  its operations. Apart from traditionai banking products, the bank also offers through its branches  India products such  trade credit arrangements, ECB arrangements, PCFC and export bili nego, -frills account. Societe Generale Societe Generale has been present  India since 1978 with the establishment   representative office  Delhi.  1985,  opened its first fuli-fledged banking branch  Mumbai and  second branch  Delhi  1993. Societe Generale provides  wide range  banking facilities and services from customer deposits and plain vanilla working capitai loans, term loans; trade finance and corporate   more sophisticated investment banking products like structured finance, derivatives etc. Sonali Bank Sonali Bank has opened two branches  India with  regionai head office  Kolkata.  offers  wide range  services such  personai banking, corporate banking, Hajj savings, rurai credit, micro credit, internationai banking, industriai financing, deposit and credit schemes, SME banking, project finance, trade finance, loan syndication, foreign exchange dealing, NGO-linkage loan, investment, government treasury function, money market operation, capitai market operation and remittance. Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank has been operating  India since 1858.  India, the bank provides personai banking, priority banking, NRI banking, business banking. The bank operates through  number  subsidiaries  India such  the Standard Chartered Securities India Ltd, the vehicle for the equities business, Standard Chartered Private Equity Advisory India Private Limited, Standard Chartered Investments and Loans India Limited, Standard Chartered Finance limited and SCOPE Internationai.  PwCState Bank  Mauritius Ltd The State Bank  Mauritius has been present  India since 1994, with its first branch  Mumbai. The bank also has branches  Chennai and Hyderabad.   growing internationai bank  the wholesale banking domain  India, SBM provides  wide range  corporate and commerciai banking services. These include corporate lending, treasury services, cash and trade transaction services  corporate, financiai institutions and smali and mid-tier clients across industries and segments. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation received its licence  operate  India  May 2o12.  has significant exposure  India through foreign currency loan extended    overseas offices and has advised severai infrastructure projects.    partner with the Delhi Mumbai Industriai Corridor Development Corporation for advising and bringing financing solutions  DMIC. UBS  UBS    Swiss globai financiai services company headquartered  Basei and Zurich  Switzerland. The bank  Mumbai Branch offers its clients products across financiai markets, institutionai banking, corporate banking and individuai banking.  2o13, the bank surrendered its banking license  India. United Overseas Bank Ltd United Overseas Bank Limited,  major Asian bank headquartered  Singapore, established its maiden branch  India  Mumbai and commenced business   December 2oo9. Founded  1935, UOB provides  wide range  financiai services, including personai financiai services, private banking, commerciai and corporate banking, investment banking, corporate finance, capitai market activities, treasury services, futures broking, asset management, venture capitai management, insurance and stock broking services. Westpac Westpac has been operating  India through its representative office since 2oo7 and was awarded  foreign banking licence  the RBI  Aprii 2o12. Westpac opened its first branch  India  November 2o12. The branch aims  support Australian customers and  growing number  Indian customers with trade and investment links  Australia. Westpac offers wholesale and retaii banking services  India including trade finance, deposits, remittances, payments and receivables, savings and current account, foreign exchange and treasury services predominantly  Indian rupees. Woori Bank The South Korea-based, Woori Bank,  part  the Woori Financiai Group, launched its first branch  India,  Chennai,  2o12  provide assistance  Korean companies  the country  corporate banking and  serve locai clients. The Chennai branch  the head office  Woori Bank  India. Foreign Banks  India:   inflection 37Notes Acknowledgements Rajui Jain Senior Manager, Financiai Services Trisha Chatterji Knowledge Manager, Financiai Services Vivek Pillai Associate, Financiai Services Meena Aier Senior Analyst, Financiai Services Rashee Iyer Senior Analyst, Financiai Services Abhishek Kakar Brand and Communications About PwC For further assistance please contact Manoj  Kashyap Leader, Financiai Services Direct:  o22 6669 1888 Emaii: manoj. . kashyap . pwc. com Shinjini Kumar Leader, Banking and capitai markets Direct:   6689 1133 Emaii: shinjini. kumar . pwc. comPwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  121 - November 2o13 Foreign Banks  India:   inflection. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India