Title: pwc_msme
Date Published: 2013-03-28 14:59:50+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_msme.pdf
Word Count: 7353
Sentence Count: 575
Average Sentence Length: 18.94

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
credit: 105
capitai: 96
loan: 75
scheme: 66
inr: 64
financiai: 63
financing: 57
sector: 57
msmes: 56
smali: 56
india: 51
banks: 51
sme: 49
bank: 48
msme: 46
development: 46
smes: 44
fund: 38
etc: 38
assistance: 38

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Financing for MSMEs The eastside story www. pwc. com india  CII - PwC The Micro Smali and Medium Enterprise MSME sector  India  essentiai  achieving the targeted growth rate  our nation. This sector nurtures budding entrepreneurs and incubates innovation  its most rudimentary levei.  growth  the MSME sector not only ensures industrialisation  backward areas, but also indicates  more equitable Gini coefficient.  the last five-year plan, this sector demonstrated  average growth  , raising the share  the manufacturing sector  GDP  . With the country moving towards  more inclusive growth agenda,  robust MSME sector can accelerate the growth rate,  they  not necessitate huge investments while simultaneously acting  ancillary units  larger industries. Hence, for the growth  the manufacturing sector  the country and specifically  the eastern region, there   need  focus  the MSME sector. Albeit the sector has shown impressive potentiai,  also faces  number  challenges  its growth story. MSMEs suffer the high cost  credit which does not reach them  time. There  inadequate capitai infusion compounded  insufficient data  credit requirement.  address such issues, various centrai and state government schemes have been rolled out supported  government bodies, banks and financiai institutions  infuse funds  this sector. Centrai government bodies such  the Nationai Smali Industries Corporation which assists smali units  forwarding requisite machinery, play  important role. The Smali Industries Development Agency   unique single- window service for SSI units. The Reserve Bank  India Rurai Planning and Credit Department acts  refinance nationalised banks and financiai institutions  the industry sector. The credit guarantee scheme . . CGTMSE facilitates collaterai free credit and merit based lending. Schemes like TUF Technology Upgradation Fund provide technologicai inputs  the beneficiary units. This study attempts  document the various schemes and new financing methods available for MSMEs and provide them with  roadmap for optimai use. The report delineates the pivotai role  the credit rating agencies  assessing and establishing the authenticity  firms who seek financiai support.  also highlights alternative financing options like venture capitai, factoring and supply chain financing   route  access capitai from bank and non bank sources. The innovative platform provided  the recently introduced SME Exchange, that promises  give the SMEs  much needed access  low cost equity capitai, has also been analysed. This CII-PwC report focuses  financing solutions for MSMEs  east India and provides  roadmap for MSMEs  overcome liquidity issues. Foreword  CII - PwC MSMEs and their financing Overview The MSME sector  India  incredibly heterogeneous  terms  size  the enterprises, variety  products and services produced and levels  technology employed.  per the Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises Development Act  2oo6, enterprises with the capitai investment plant, machinery and equipment levels within  crore INR for services worth  crore INR qualify  MSMEs. The MSME sector contributes   significant way  the growth  the Indian economy with  vast network  over  million units, creating employment  about  million, manufacturing more than 6ooo products, contributing about   manufacturing output and about   exports, directly and indirectly.    acknowledged fact that the MSME sector can help realise the target  the proposed Nationai Manufacturing Policy  raising the share  the manufacturing sector  GDP from   present    the end  2o22. However, this sector has faced certain impediments  growth, owing  some historicai factors discussed below. Challenges Despite showing  robust growth rate  over  over the last  years, the MSME sector  beset with operationai problems due  size and nature  business.  2o1o, the Prime Minister  India appointed  task force set  under the chairmanship  the Principai Secretary,  consider various issues raised  MSME associations, discuss with the stakeholders and chalk out  action agenda. The key issues identified  the task force, and subsequently taken   the Planning Commission  the 12th plan are  follows: Financing related Non-availability  adequate and timely credit; High cost  credit; Collaterai requirements; Limited access  equity capitai. Legai and tax related Multiplicity and procedurai complexity  labour laws;  mechanism for quick revivai  viable sick units and speedy shutdown  unviable ones; Issues relating  taxation, both direct and indirect, and procedures thereof. Operations related Problems  supply  government departments and agencies; Cost efficient procurement  raw materials; Problems  storage, designing, packaging and product display. Infrastructure and technology related Lack  access  globai markets; Inadequate infrastructure; Lack  access  modern technologies; Lack  skilled manpower  manufacturing, services, marketing, etc. Various action points were included  the Task Force  recommendations, but the financing problems stili persist. MSME owners generally have limited access  credit. This forces them  borrow from unregulated lending markets  from their own dealers and they end  paying much higher interests. Not only does this lead  overpricing  products, but also limits the MSME owners ability  add value, upgrade technology, quality and adopt modern management techniques. Thus availability  credit  affordable cost  criticai for Indian SMEs. Financing  MSMEs MSMEs require timely and adequate capitai infusion through term loans and working capitai loans, particularly during the early and growth stages. Historically the MSMEs have relied  following sources for financing their needs: Retained earnings, funding through sale  assets Ancestrai capitai, personai savings, loans from relatives, loans from unregulated market Institutionai financing from scheduled commerciai banks Venture capitai funds seed funds Among the formai financiai institutions, commerciai banks constitute the largest source  financiai assistance for the MSME sector  about    31st March 2o11. The outstanding MSE credit  SCBs recorded  strong growth     2o11   strong base  , , 291 crore INR   31st March 2o1o. The traditionai and emerging options for financing MSMEs  the eastern states  West Bengai, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, MSMEs have been discussed  the subsequent section. Financing for MSMEs 5MSME financing  eastern India Traditionai financing options The number  new MSMEs has been consistently increasing across the nation. Financiai support can  attributed   reason for this. This has been possible through various debt instruments, limited equity capitai and  slew  government schemes. However, the picture  less rosy  the eastern region  India.  address this, many schemes for the development  MSMEs have been launched  the centrai and state governments. Many centrai and state institutes provide varied assistance for the growth  MSMEs  eastern India. Financiai support from public sector banks Public sector banks have been pioneers  providing financiai assistance  severai MSMEs which can approach the banks for loans under various schemes. The government  India has shown strong commitment  double the credit Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance Nationai Smali Industries Corporation NSIC Financiai and marketing assistance  the smali scale unit supplying requisite machinery  hire purchase and leasehold basis Smali Industries Development Agency SIDA Single window service for SSI units Credit Linked Capitai Subsidy Scheme CLCSS  various banks and institutes refer  appendix .  Facilitates technology upgradation  micro and smali enterprises. The scheme provides  capitai subsidy  institutionai finance availed  them for induction  weli-established and improved technology  approved subsector products. The maximum limit  loan for calculation  capitai subsidy under the scheme  1oo lakh INR with  maximum subsidy   lakh INR. PMEGP Training Programme Beneficiaries can set  micro enterprises  availing  margin money subsidy    for speciai categories  the project cost  rurai areas. The maximum cost  the projects assisted under PMEGP   lakh INR  the manufacturing sector and  lakh INR  the service sector. Smali Industry Development Bank  India SIDBI Eastern Regionai Office Promotion, financing and development  the smali scale sector, and -ordination  the functions  the institutions engaged  the promotion and financing  developing industry  the smali scale sector. SIDBI also refinances institutions such  state financiai corporations SFCs, state industriai development corporations SIDCs, and commerciai banks against loans granted  the smali-scale sector. SIDBI also acts  financer for smali-scale projects directly   selective basis. Products and servies offered  SIDBI may  broadly classified: Institutionai: Focuses  refinance schemes, like Mahila Udyam Nidhi, finance  smali transport operators, technology upgradation fund for textile units, loans for acquisition  ISO certification, self- employment loan for -servicemen, single window finance for short term credit, ali  them operated through SFCs  SIDCs  primary lending institutions  Banks  other microfinance institutions, depending upon the category  loans. Promotionai: SIDBI acts   nodai agency for severai Government schemes such  Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme for the textile sector, Integrated Development  Leather Sector Scheme for the leather sector and Modernization Upgradation  Food Processing Industry. SIDBI Venture Capitai Fund Ltd SVCL manages two funds set   SIDBI  the nationai levei. The Nationai Venture Capitai Fund for Software and  Industry NFSIT  worth 1oo crore INR, established with the focus  supporting incubation projects  smali-scale units  the  and related business. The SME Growth Fund has  corpus  5oo crore INR which targets growth-oriented businesses  the areas  life sciences, retailing, light engineering, food processing, , infrastructure related services, healthcare, logistics and distribution, for making primary equity and equity related investments. Nationai Bank  Agriculture NABARD Assistance and refinance  farm and rurai development agro processing sectorflow  this sector  the next five years. Hence the RBI has mandated scheduled commerciai banks  achieve  year--year credit growth  the MSME sector. MSMEs needing financiai assistance can approach the banks for aid  per the specific schemes constituted for different types  financiai aid. These schemes offered  multiple banks are expanded  Appendix . . Also, certain public sector banks provide MSMEs with various bank-specific schemes which have been expanded  Appendix . . Government institutes and schemes Centrai institutes and schemes The following table captures  brief the nodai government bodies looking after MSME development and some  the centrai government financing schemes available.  CII - PwC Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Smali Enterprises CGTMSE CGTMSE, established jointly  SIDBI and the government  India, extends credit facilities  the micro and smali enterprises sector. The mandate : Credit facilities, including term loans, fund and non-fund based working capitai facilities    crore INR extended  micro and smali enterprises are guaranteed     the amount  default, subject   maximum   lakh INR. With regard  loans    lakh INR  micro units, the coverage  . Loans guaranteed under the scheme carry zero percent risk weight and provision for the lending institution for the guaranteed portion. The scheme also facilitates lending institutions  the evaluation  the credit proposals  the basis  intrinsic merits  the projects, rather than merely  adequacy  collaterals. Reserve Bank  India Rurai Planning and Credit DeptProviding refinance  nationalised banks and financiai institutions  the industry sector and framing  policy decision  the working  banks Exim Bank Credit facilities are available for financing ali stages  the export cycle  Indian firms. The bank  lines  credit LOC extend  commerciai banks, financiai institutions, regionai development banks, and entities overseas serve   market entry mechanism  Indian exporters and provide  safe mode  nonrecourse financing option  Indian exporters. The bank offers buyer  credit and supplier  credit for exports  deferred payment terms. These facilities help SMEs,  offer competitive credit terms  the buyers and  explore newer geographicai markets. TUF TUF facilitates those SMEs that look  improvise their technologicai skills.  provides  margin money subsidy for the SSI textile and jute sector  lieu   interest reimbursement  investment  TUF compatible specified machinery subject   capitai ceiling  2oo lakh INR and ceiling  margin money subsidy  lakh INR.  minimum   equity contribution from beneficiaries  ensured. CLCSS Under CLCSS, tiny units with investment  plant and machinery  less than  lakh INR are eligible for  loan support  upto  lakh INR. Tiny units with investment  plant and machinery between  lakh INR   lakh INR are eligible for  loan support  upto  lakh INR. Smali units with investment  plant and machinery  above  lakh INR are eligible for  loan support  upto  lakh INR. Interest subsidy scheme  IPR, which works effectively with the active assistance  banks and financiai institutionsThe interest subsidy scheme helps  dispensation for labour-intensive industry  extending the facility   interest subvention for handlooms, handicrafts, carpets and smali and medium enterprises SMEs. NEF Under NEF, loans are given  firms with  project cost including margin money for working capitai not exceeding  lakh INR  case  new projects.  interest  charged  the loan component except service charge   . . Scheme  Fund for Regeneration  Traditionai Industries SFURTI through Coir Board75 for CFC, technology upgradation, product development and 1oo for capacity building, market development with component-wise ceiling. The components  funding are technology upgradation, setting-  common facility centres CFCs, development  new products and designs, new and improved packaging, etc, market promotion activities, capacity-building activities, other activities identified  the implementing agency   necessary for the development  the cluster Financing for MSMEs 7Assistance  West Bengai Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance West Bengai Handicrafts Development Corporation LtdPromotion and development  handicrafts through skili development and organisation  direct haats  rurai and urban areas,  provide artisans  market West Bengai Industriai Development Corporation Ltd WBIDC Nodai agency  the state government for the promotion and financing  medium and large-scale industries. Provides support  industries  facilitation, financing, disbursing incentives and  setting  industriai parks The West Bengai Smali Industries Development Corporation Ltd WBSIDC Providing infrastructurai support, marketing assistance, supply  raw materials and other promotionai assistance for SSI units West Bengai Industriai Infrastructure Development CorporationProviding supporting infrastructure relating  roads, drainage, water and power supply, street lighting, CFC   established growth centres  the state West Bengai Financiai Corporation WBFC Providing term loan assistance  smali-scale industries  the state Modular Food Park Modular Industriai Infrastructure LtdSponsored  the FPI department,  provides infrastructure  Dankuni and other support  food processing industries. Assistance  Jharkhand There are  specific institutes  Jharkhand but the state government itself undertakes promotion and support  the MSMEs through following activities. Coordination support for MSMEs  micro finance institutions, raw materiai focused market access. Speciai emphasis  given  providing common facility centres CFC mainly through public-private-partnership PPP initiatives  MSME projects   cluster. Implementation  schemes such  ASIDE, Credit Guarantee Fund Trust Scheme, Cluster Development Programme for MSMEs. Other financiai support for MSMEs: -Tender forms for biding wili  made available free  cost. -Exemption from payment  Earnest Money Deposit EMD and Security Deposit  -Bili discounting facility wili  made available  government orders. - price preference . . where the bid  micro and smali enterprises are within    Least priced bid, the locai micro and smali enterprises wili  given  offer  reasonable part  the order   Assistance  Chattisgarh Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance Biotechnology Development FundThe government has set   speciai Biotechnology Development Fund with  initiai corpus   crore INR. Automotive Industries Policy -2o12This wili help automotive industry growth  state1. Various facilities under this Act are mentioned  Appendix . Agro and Food Processing industries Policy 2o12To promote the agri processing industry, the state  providing benefits  the industry. The details may  referred   Appendix .  ITEs2  infrastructure PolicyThis provides incentives  companies setting  projects  Chattisgarh. Interest subsidy    the totai interest paid   the period  seven years with  maximum limit   lakh INR  Fixed capitai investment subsidy   with maximum limit  14o lakh INR Electricity duty exemption for upto  years VAT CST CGST reimbursement for  period   years Solar Policy3 Industries may enter the solar energy sector and avaii  the following benefits: Electricity exemption tili 2o17 VAT for the equipments  the project  exempted Cross subsidy charges are not applicable.  http: www. csidc.  Automotive 2oEng. pdf  http: www. csidc.   2oenglish 2ofinai. pdf  http: www. csidc.  Solar 2oPolicy 2oEnglish 2oFINAL. pdf  CII - PwC Assistance  Odisha4 Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance District -ordination Committee DCC New smali-scale units  priority sectors are entitled  interest subsidy  the rate   per annum for  period  five years from the date  commerciai production  term loans availed from recognised financiai institutions and banks. Smali-scale industriai units existing  new which undertake modernisation are eligible for interest subsidy  the rate   per annum for  period  five years from the date  completion  modernisation  term loans availed from recognised financiai institutions and banks. The interest subsidy wili  limited   lakh INR  case  smali-scale units and  lakh INR  case  tiny units. Industriai units operating  Kalahandi, Nuapada, Bolangir, Sonepur, Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada, Nawarangpur, Gajapati and Deogarh wili get additionai interest subsidy  the rate    the term loan   lakh INR, whichever  less,   incentive for backward area development. Odisha Smali Industries Corporation OSIC The OSIC has the following objectives:  provide quality raw materials  provide quality building materials  assist  marketing the products  act   syndicate leader  per the IPR  the government  Odisha  act   contract exchange for the MSME sector Odisha State Financiai Corporation OSFC The provide term loans  below loan limit5 Minimum:  lakh INR Maximum: 1ooo lakh INR  corporations, companies, -operative societies Maximum: 4oo lakh INR  proprietorship concerns and partnership firms and trusts Rate  interest shali  fixed  risk-based rating  the project which wili vary from .  . .  .  . . Assistance  Bihar Name  scheme institute Nature  assistance Chief Minister Cluster Development Scheme6 SME requirements are the focai point  this proposed scheme. Bihar State Financiai CooperationHelps  planning and arranging finance  Industry Subsidy Those who allotted land and shed  Industriai Area Development Authority IADA, Export Promotion Industriai Park, Food Park, Agri-Export Zone, etc are eligible for subsidy after commerciai production  unit. Smali Tiny unit,  with  ceiling  .  lacs Ali large Medium Mega units  with  ceiling  .  lacs NABARD schemes Initiatives like the urban cooperative bank, Self Help Group SHG were strengthened further  ensure wider financiai inclusion and also reduce the incidence  informai credit lending and high interest rates  Bihar. The MSME units were made entitled  credit cards similar  the kisan credit card. The power loom sector needs   included  the list  the beneficiaries eligible for credit linked subsidy scheme  the PMEGP  the power loom sector has already benefitted from the same scheme  the neighbouring state  West Bengai. The centrai scheme interest subsidy    enable weavers  access loans  the rate     interest for the next three years had been implemented.  The Odisha government has unveiled  , 6oo-crore INR investment plan aimed  creation  , ooo new units  the MSME sector  the 12th Plan period 2o12-.  http: www. osfcindia. com PDF SALIENT_FEATURE_OF_LOAN_POLICY_FY--. pdf  The scheme  pending with the centrai government with  plans forwarded. Financing for MSMEs 9Financiai support from venture capitals SME private equity and venture capitai funds Venture capitai   means  equity financing for rapidly- growing MSMEs. Venture capitalists provide funds after carefully scrutinising projects. Their main aim   earn higher returns  their investments, but their methods are different from traditionai lenders. They take active part  the management  the company  weli  provide the expertise and qualities  good bankers, technologists, planners and managers.  funds required  SMEs are too large for microfinance institutions and too smali  too risky for commerciai banks, this  one  the primai issues that the   component addresses  part  the investment promotion  the consolidated project for SME development  India. Advantages   funding Venture capitai has  number  advantages over other forms  finance:  injects long-term equity finance which provides  solid capitai base for future growth. The venture capitalist   business partner, sharing both the risks and rewards. Venture capitalists are rewarded  business success and capitai gain. The venture capitalist  able  provide practicai advice and assistance  the company based  past experience. The venture capitalist also has  network  contacts  many areas that can add value  the company, such   recruiting key personnei, providing contacts  internationai markets, introductions  strategic partners, and  needed, -investments with other venture capitai firms when additionai rounds  financing are required. Mode and criteria for investment Venture capitai provides financiai assistance primarily  way  equity  equity-linked capitai investment.  also endeavours  provide mentoring support and other value addition  enable funded companies  achieve rapid growth and achieve and maintain their competitive edge  domestic and internationai markets. The  fund seeks  strategic stake  the funded companies with board representation and other rights  venture capitai investor. Key criteria for SME project selection are  follows: Strong and committed core team Growth potentiai Long-term competitive advantage Viable business plan  clear exit plan Institutions offering   Some venture capitai firms, institutionai investors and banks who provide venture capitai  MSMEs are  follows: SIDBI Venture Capitai Limited SVCL IFCI Venture Capitai Funds Limited IVCF Helion Venture Partners Erasmic Venture Fund Accei India Venture Fund SeedFund Upstream Ventures Aavishkaar India Micro Venture Capitai Fund AIMVCF   Trust Company Limited Infinity Venture India Fund Walden Internationai Investment Group SEAF India Investment and Growth Fund BTS India Private Equity Fund Limited Canbank Venture Capitai Fund SBI Capitai Markets Limited ICICI Bank  SME venture capitai fund IDBI Bank  SME venture capitai fund This  not  exhaustive list and there are many niche  funds who actively participate  providing financiai assistance  SMEs. New channels  financiai aid Access  equity capitai through SME exchanges There   generai lack  awareness among SMEs about equity capitai, stock markets and funding options, other than banks.  far, there have been only debt-financing options, without any access  alternative equity options. The smali and medium exchanges for SMEs listing norms unlike the regular listing   SME platform through  IPO are  major introduction. Meant for SMEs with  paid- capitai  less than  crore INR,  empowers them  tap into the capitai markets  getting listed  the exchange without having  make any initiai public offering.  enable SMEs  get over the liquidity crisis that they continue facing, regulators have mandated market making  the SME Exchange platform,  ensure that liquidity  generated. The handholding  the company  the merchant banker  the form  market making wili create the liquidity  the SME Platform. Moreover, the sector  highly unorganised and fragmented, and the new SME exchange wili facilitate the creation   financiai ecosystem for SMEs  India. The trend  this sector has been  overleveraging debts for lack  opportunity  raise equity capitai. The revised ecosystem therefore has  justify opportunities  raising equity capitai, balancing the debt equity ratios  companies and facilitate these enterprises  sustain  healthy balance sheet. The need for Indian SMEs  acquire capitai  low cost  compete   globai levei  one  the key factors behind the creation  this revised framework. The newly introduced SME exchange wili acknowledge the expansion aspirations  these SMEs and help them find solutions  their financiai requirement. Companies wili  high  the valuation matrix, once they get listed  CII - PwC  the exchange. The tax benefits are immense  weli.  remaining unlisted, any company attracts   long- term capitai gains tax  the sale  shares, while  listed company attracts none. The listing wili also hopefully bring about  sea change  transparency and corporate governance  the listed firms and ensure better visibility among investors. Compliance norms have also been simplified  the advantage  the SMEs. They need  submit half-yearly financiai results instead  quarterly ones. SMEs can send the abridged version  the annuai report with the details  the profit-and-loss account and balance sheet  the shareholders, instead   fuli annuai report. They can make the soft copy  the annuai report available  their website. They can send the soft copy  the Exchange, regulators and the ROC also. This wili bring down the recurrent cost  compliance substantially for listed companies  the SME Exchange7. The enlistment also comes with  market making support for three years  the secondary market which wili ideally help create the desired liquidity for SMEs. Considering the fact that there are  million   million investors  the capitai market who can invest  these companies through any  the branches and franchisees  more than 16oo BSE members, the influence  the investor base for these SMEs wili  manifold, thus improving their valuation and promoting wealth creation. The SMEs listed  the SME exchange can migrate  the BSE main board without bringing  fresh IPO,  the paid- capitai  the listed SME  above  crore INR and the non- promoter shareholders approve the migration   two-third majority. This   bonus for the listed SMEs8. Extension  state Industriai Promotion Assistance Scheme The Industriai Promotion Assistance scheme provides financiai assistance  micro and smali enterprises  the state. This scheme was supposed  come   end   March 2o13. However, owing  the government  clear focus  the employment-intensive micro and smali scale enterprises the Finance Minister  West Bengai stated  extension  this scheme tili  March 2o149. Scheme for financiai aid    The mini tools room and training centre scheme  focused  develop more tooi room facilities and   intended  provide technologicai support  MSMEs. This  conceived  one  the prime aids  driving investment    and technology  the SMEs. The Finance Minister  recognition  technology   driver  growth was exemplified with  sum  22oo crore INR pledged for  additionai tooi rooms and technology development centres   set   the Ministry  Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises. The importance  technology and  services  the growth story  SMEs  India has been growing over the past few years. The trend being the fact that while Indian enterprises are investing cautiously  traditionai technology  2o13, they are likely  increase investments     the areas  emerging technologies such  mobility, data analytics and cloud computing  improve their core business. Securitisation  SME credit SME credit could  converted into loan pools  securitised assets and sold  investors interested  investing  such asset classes. The RBI had issued new guidelines for the securitisation  standard assets  order  enable creation   true securitisation market  India. These guidelines have numerous safeguards embedded  them  enhance the quality  the pass-through certificates PTCs issued  any securitisation transaction.  precedence can  seen   recent transaction   Chennai-based NBFC, IFMR capitai, who closed the first   kind PTC  India, with its partner Vistaar Financiai services Pvt Ltd,  Bangalore-based NBFC, worth .  million INR. IFMR intends  conduct further transactions   similar kind and  building  pipeline  SME lenders. They are also planning  replicate  multi-originator MOSEC structure for smali business lenders, the intent being that  building  severai instances  such institutions using their knowledge and expertise  create such  asset class   systemic manner against  strong underwriting framework and subsequently marketing   larger investor franchisees. These transactions  turn wili open the capitai markets  smali business lenders   cost reasonable  them and this wili boost funding  SMEs.  SME World article dated Aprii 2o12: http: www. smeworld. org story sme-exchange sme-exchange-launched. php  http: articles. economictimes. indiatimes. com 2o12-- news 34729842_1_sm -platform-bse-sme-exchange-debt-and-equity-ratios  Government  West Bengai: Annuai Financiai Statement for the Financiai Year 2o13- http: www. wbfin. nic.  writereaddata Speech 2oEnglish. pdf Financing for MSMEs 11Improving credit health for MSMEs Credit related issues MSMEs depend predominantly  internai sources  finance personai savings, loan from relatives, and loan from locai money lenders than that  institutionai financing  banks and other financing institutions.  indication  that even  recent times, MSME credit   percentage  net bank credit  commerciai banks has been below . Banks perceive MSMEs  risky field  investment due  the following: Low growth rate  smali firms Firms following informai business practices Inability  MSME owners  maintain collaterai securities Lack  credit worthiness and goodwili Relatively high processing costs  background checks, etc Lack  transparency due  poor reporting  firm data Some  the reasons cited above are uncontrollable from the perspective  MSMEs. MSMEs generally operate  tight budgets, and are often unable  procure adequate financiai resources for the purchase  machinery, equipment, raw materials,  even day--day operationai expenses. This  because  account  their low goodwili and limited fixed investment base, they find  difficult  borrow  reasonable rates from institutions. Hence, for  MSME, any unforeseen event large order, rejection  consignment  inordinate delay  customer payment may result  the unit having close operations due  lack  funds. Also, the dearth  capitai also implies there  little scope for growth and expansion. Role  credit rating  financing One  the most important procedures taken  financiai institutes that offer credit  MSMEs   scrutinise their credit rating status  order  get  clear picture  the creditworthiness  the enterprises. Credit rating  done  the credit rating agency CRA which assigns credit ratings for issuers  certain types  debt obligations  weli  the debt instruments themselves  form  basis  prove the authenticity  the new firms who seek financiai help from different organisations for their business. Hence, credit ratings are used  investors, issuers, investment banks, broker-dealers, and governments. Credit rating  done  the basis  credit scores that are numericai values assigned  the MSMEs based   statisticai analysis  notify their credit worthiness. These scores are often evaluated  the basis  the credit reputation   company, commonly known   credit report, available from the Credit Bureau  India. The government  India also operates  specialised rating agency known  the SME Rating Agency  India Limited SMERA, which   third-party rating agency exclusively set  for micro, smali and medium enterprises  India for ratings  creditworthiness.  provides ratings which enable only MSME units  raise bank loans  competitive rates  interest. SMERA  MSME rating scale consists  two parts,  composite appraisai condition indicator and  size indicator. SMERA rating categorises MSMEs based  size,    enable fair evaluation  each MSME amongst its peers. SMERA  MSME rating scale  specified below: Condition indicator MSME  Highest MSME  High MSME  Above average MSME  Average MSME  Below average MSME  Inadequate MSME  Low MSME  Lowest Size indicator based  net worth  2oCr INR and above  Between   INR and   INR  Between 1Cr INR and 5Cr INR  Less than 1Cr INR  CII - PwC Some  the important credit rating agencies working  India are CRISIL, CARE, ICRA, FITCH RATING, NDIA and ONICRA.  scheme for performance and credit rating mechanism for SSIs has been formulated  the government  India  consultation with the Indian Banks Association IBA and various rating agencies. The Nationai Smali Industries Corporation NSIC has been appointed the nodai agency for implementation  this scheme. Under the scheme, the NSIC provides subsidy  the rating fees  the smali scale industriai units SSIs obtaining credit ratings from the agencies which are empanelled  them. Guide  better credit worthiness There are severai guidelines laid down  the United Nations, the RBI and many others  safeguard the working  MSMEs. The most common teething problem faced  MSMEs  getting access  credit. One  the best ways  ensure credit worthiness,  recommended  many organizations,    for credit rating   third party. Some others include the following: Credit rating not only ensures the credibility  the SME, but also helps them  get interest relaxation against credit from banks even  future credit applications. Credit rating assists the MSMEs  building their business credibility and hence, reduces the perceived risk  default from the banks perspective. Credit worthiness may  further improved  increasing the levei  transparency and process rigour  record keeping and financiai reporting. Most micro enterprises are weak  this aspect and this may  greatly improved through rating. Rating involves analysis for which the starting point  the financiai statement  the firm. The last line should : Hence, this process also increases the levei  discipline and record keeping standards  MSMEs. Financing institutes also apply qualitative parameters extensively  gauging the credit worthiness   MSME applicant since the financiai statements furnished may not reflect the correct business strength. Such parameters would include typically organisation structure, background check  promoters and family, management strength, resilience  the firm, quality  product, supplier and client network, trade relationships, previous credit defaults  any director  kin, etc. Hence, maintaining transparency   utmost importance  building credit worthiness. The other aspect   having weli-defined processes and adhering  them that would ensure quality  product, consistency  delivery, etc. Credit rating also helps  MSME  getting more financiai support  banks may increase their credit limits due  higher comfort factor  transacting with  weli rated MSME. The rating also allows the MSMEs  expand their market base, get new contracts from export markets. Financing for MSMEs 13Expanding the financing horizon Any start- generally seeks financiai support. Usually  the MSME sector, start- capitai  funded  personai savings, borrowings from the unregulated market  family members. Sometimes, such funding may  sufficient, but most  the time, the requirement for financiai support  not met. Organisations can seek financiai assistance depending  the project and the financiai support provided  various financiai institutes. Approach   sound project report Any company seeking financiai assistance for the implementation  its business idea  required  prepare  project report covering the following aspects  the project: Promoters background and experience Product with capacity   built  and processes involved Project location Cost  the project and means  financing Availability  utilities Technicai arrangements Market prospects and selling arrangements Environmentai aspects Profitability projections and cash flows for the entire repayment period  financiai assistance Since the appraisai  the project involves evaluation  the following key areas, submitting certain key information  these areas  necessary  ensure  watertight and viable project report1o. Management evaluation The management quality  the MSME  the first and foremost checkpoint for the financing institution. The background and previous track record  the management and the promoters  terms  heading businesses  weli  their credit history forms  important value add for the firm. The organisation structure  significant  weli    checked for balance  controi and responsibility. The incorporation documents for the company have    line with the company  intended business vision and areas. Memorandum and articles  association: Object, authorised and paid- share capitai, promoter  contribution, borrowing powers, list  directors  the board, terms  appointment  directors SMEs company  the promoter: Corporate plan  the company, projects promoted, implemented, under implementation, bankers report  dealings and repayment  past loan assistance, details  group companies, operations, balance sheet and profit and loss account  the promoter companyNew promoters: Educationai background, any industriai experience, family background, sources  income, details  personai properties, banker  reference, income tax and wealth tax returns Management and organisation set-: Broad composition  the board, details  fulltime directors and their responsibilities, details  chief executive and functionai executives including qualification, experience, organisation set- for existing company and during project implementation for new company. Technicai feasibility The technicai feasibility  tested  the financer   standard assessment procedure  mapping the locai unmet demand for the specific service product being sold  the applying SME with factors like locai competition, availability  raw materials and required manpower, logistics and infrastructure etc. The other important cog that  tested here for soundness  the background  the contractors setting  the plant facility and their project track record. The last and  increasing importance,  the environmentai impact  the proposed project and clearances needed thereof. Technology and manufacturing process: Proven and new technology, basis  selection  technology, competing technologies, performance data  plants based  the technology, details  licensor  technology, process flow chart and description Location  the project: Locationai advantage, availability  raw materiai and other utilities, infrastructure facilities, availability  labour, environmentai aspects Plant and machinery: List  machinery and equipment, details  suppliers, competitive quotations, technicai commerciai evaluation  major equipment Raw materiai, utilities and manpower: Details  raw materials and suppliers, electricity and water supply, basis  manpower estimates, details  manpower, . . manageriai, supervisory, skilled  unskilled, training needs Contracts: Agreement with contractors detailing  know- how, engineering, procurement, construction, financiai soundness and experience  contractors Project monitoring and implementation: Mode  implementation, details  monitoring team, detailed schedule  implementation Environmentai aspects: Air, water and soii pollution, list  pollutants  hazardous substances, their safety, handling and disposai arrangements, compliance with nationai and internationai standards, clearances and  objection certificates required and obtained, etc.  SIDBI guidelines for preparing  Detailed Project report: http: smallb.   plan-new-entrepreneurship  guidelines- preparing-detailed-project-report  CII - PwC Commerciai viability Existing and potentiai market demand and supply for the proposed product  respect  volume and pattern Share  the proposed product  the company  the totai market through marketing strategy Selling price  the product and export potentiai,  any Buy-back arrangements,  any. Financiai appraisai The financiai appraisai  the most cruciai aspect from the point  view  the financer. Here the overali costs, revenue projections are checked for realistic estimates, and also tested with sensitivity analysis  changing some cruciai project parameters like CAGR, service cost inflation, raw materiai costs etc. The project  also measured  terms  payback period, break even period and internai rate  returns,  give  idea about the revenue and profit generating capacity  the project. Cost  the project: This includes the cost  land and site development, building, plant and machinery, technicai know-how and engineering fees, miscellaneous fixed assets, preliminary and preoperative expenses, contingencies and margin money for working capitai. SMEs are expected  submit realistic estimates. The cost  the project wili  examined with reference  various factors such  implementation period, inflation, various agreements, quotations, etc. Means  financing: This shali have  conform  proper mix  share capitai and debt. This includes share capitai, unsecured loans from promoters  associates, internai accruals, term loans, government subsidy  grant. The reasonableness  promoters contribution  the form  equity and interest-free unsecured loans,  any,  ascertained  view  commitment  the project. Profitability projections: Past records  financiai performance  SME wili  examined. SMEs need  submit profitability estimates, cash flow and projected balance sheet for the project and for the company   whole. Based  the projections, various financiai ratios such  debt -equity ratio, current ratio, fixed asset coverage ratio, gross profit, operating profit, net profit ratios, internai rate  return over the economic life  the project, debt service coverage ratio, earning per share, dividend payable, etc. wili  worked out  ascertain financiai soundness  the project. Economic viability This aspect  checked for projects where there  either export orientation  probability  internationai players entering the domestic market  same area  service product  the SME. Hence this  particularly relevant for  related businesses  weli  any FMCG  light engineering venture. SMEs wili have  take reai value  input  against the value accounted  financiai analysis for the economic evaluation  the project. SMEs should carry out sociai cost benefit analysis   measure  the costs and benefits  the project  the society and the economy. Economic analysis  aimed  the inherent strength  the project  withstand internationai competition  its own. Apart from the mandatory documents MSME borrowers can make convincing business cases for funding  keeping the following things  mind while approaching any lender. MSME borrowers can meet their borrowing requirements and avaii the best possible terms  they approach banks  financiai institutions   appropriate manner. They must clearly understand the various criteria that banks employ  screen, rate and process their loan applications and the importance  furnishing precise and correct information.  commerciai credit bureaus particularly CIBIL expand their database,  wili become progressively easier for financiai institutions  track past repayment  default behaviour  loan applicants. Business plans They should ideally have  updated business plan for their company, showing intended capitai investments and forecast revenue and expenditure for the next three  five years. This   excellent document  produce during discussions with  banker  financiai adviser. Having  feasibility study  the project the fund  intended for might prove   usefui  weli. Feasibility studies are usually carried out  connection with medium-  long- term projects and are consequently prepared, among other reasons,   aid  raising medium-  long-term project loan finance. They may wish  start  new project  expand  existing activity, and need capitai  finance the additionai capitai goods required . . , machinery, tools, spares and raw materials. MSMEs wili need  feasibility study  present  their banker. They wili also need  give copies  draft  actuai loan agreements with other lending institutions. These are important because the loan agreements may stipulate that they cannot borrow from another lender unless the loan  subordinated  them. This may mean that they cannot pledge fixed  current assets  the first lenders have fixed and floating charges  such assets. They may  limited  providing their bank with  second charge  some other, less secure, form  guarantee.  many respects, the feasibility study  not dissimilar  its presentation  the business plan. The main difference lies  its purpose. Financing for MSMEs 15Use  alternative financing options  spite  the various policies created  augment financiai support  SMEs and the growth  the credit limits  banks, SMEs stili face challenges when  comes  accessing timely and sufficient credit   reasonable cost. The credit flow  them  not aligned  the needs  the economic activities undertaken  them. According   RBI report,  statistics reveai that smali businesses rely  multiple sources  financing ranging from internai sources namely personai funds and funds from friends,  externai sources, both formai and informai, which include financing from banks, NBFCs, venture capitai funds, trade credit factoring, etc. The raw sample includes more than , ooo non-financiai firms.  particular, trade credits bank loans are less more important for Indian firms based  the World Bank surveys. These findings are one  the many indicators  the increasing importance  alternative source  financing for SMEs  India. Factoring Factoring   form  receivables finance whereby  business sells  assigns its accounts receivables . . invoices   finance company  factor   discount  exchange for immediate money with which  finance continued business.  The delayed payment cycle  the large scale customers  SMEs have  adverse effect  their operationai facets and fund recycling efforts.  CRISIL study  5ooo smali and medium enterprises SMEs reveals that SMEs can enhance profits   least  per cent  they receive payments  time from their large corporate customers. CRISIL estimates that timely payments from large customers wili help SMEs reduce interest costs, improve profitability and have  positive impact  the long- term health and sustainability  India  SME sector. SMEs with large corporate customers have receivables    12o days  sales  their balance sheets,  against  days stipulated  the Micro, Smali, and Medium Enterprises Development MSMED Act. Factoring  capable  providing SMEs with the liquidity needed against their receivables and can  efficient alternate source  working capitai. Factors buy the right  collect  invoices raised against any sales  the SME and releases -  the invoice value  the firm.    account  its superior conversion time  receivables into cash, absence  geographicai restraints, non requirement collaterai security etc makes   much preferred and superior product than bank finance. The Indian factoring market  stili   nascent stage.  per the Factors Chain Internationai FCI,  globai network  factoring companies worldwide, the turnover  India  only 275o million euros, which  less than half  the turnover  Singapore and not even   China  turnover. There are nearly  factoring companies  India with Canbank factors and SBI Globai Factors being two  the oldest. Supply chain finance Supply chain finance can prove   another route  facilitate SMEs access  enhanced working capitai from bank and non bank sources. This mode  financing enables SME suppliers  large OEMS  receive short-term credit against the volume supplied during the payment receivable period. HSBC for instance has  distributor finance programme DFP which assists  creating the support framework for financing and collection for any SME client  delivery chain. Regular MIS helps the SME update their sales ledgers and avoid reconciliation issues. Angei funds  venture capitai funds SMEs involved  commercialising innovations and high-end technologies need   able  access venture  risk capitai fund effectively. These firms need finance during the initiai stages  conceptualising their product offerings seed phase and during development and marketing phase. These concept and ideas generally need  incubation period before they can  utilised for generating revenue  profit. This  where venture capitai comes   provide them with funds required  enter new markets and attain accelerated growth. The GOI  terms  the recommendations  the   task force has been working towards clearing the SME route towards accessing this kind  much needed fund.  the Union Budget 2o12- the Finance Minister had announced  set    billion INR India Opportunities Venture Fund with SIDBI  enhance the availability  equity  the MSME sector. With the government  India putting the development  the MSME sector  top priority, and the state governments  the eastern region aligning themselves  this objective through implementation  various schemes, the future for MSMEs  the east  brightening . The MSME companies need   aware  the schemes and financiai aids being offered through various banking and non-banking channels  fund their innovation. With increasing participation  SMEs  the innovative exchange platform, along with their active opt- for third party credit ratings, access  capitai, both equity and debt, should  longer   bottleneck for growth and expansion. These financiai aids and processes wili not only give the MSMEs  much needed reprieve from their liquidity crunch, but also help them  instilling the rigour  process, transparency and quality.  Strengthening SMEs Capabilities for Globai Competitiveness Address  . . . Chakrabarty, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank  India  the interactive session   October 2o12  Mumbai http: www. rbi. org.  scripts BS_SpeechesView. aspx?  739  SME World article dated Sep 2o11 http: www. smeworld. org story money factoring-alternative-source--. php  CII - PwC Appendix . - MSME support links . . State levei banker  committees These SLBCs may  contacted for financing options available for MSMEs SLBC West Bengai http: www. slbcbengai. com contact. asp SLBC Jharkhand http: slbcallahabadbank. com index. htmi SLBC Odisha http: Odisha. gov.  finance slbc . htm SLBC Bihar http: slbc. bih. nic.  Contact. htm SLBC Chattisgarh http: slbcchhattisgarh. com index. asp . . Banks and institutes for credit linked capitai subsidy scheme .  Name  Bank Related Link . Canara Bank http: www. canarabank. com english scripts prioritycredit. aspx . NABARD http: www. nabard. org nonfarm_ sector clcss. asp . SIDBI http: www. sidbi. com governmentclcss. asp . Bank  Barodahttp: www. bankofbaroda. com bbs clcss. asp . Punjab Nationai Bankhttp: www. pnbindia.    Home. aspx . Andhra Bank http: andhrabank.  english clcss. aspx Appendix . - Highlights  existing schemes and policies . . Important schemes  West Bengai . . . . Schemes from WBIDC WBIDC  key function   provide financiai assistance  investors for setting  new medium  weli  expansion, diversification and modernisation  existing units. The loans are available  the following forms: . Normai term loan2. Term loan under equipment finance scheme EFS  this scheme the loan can    .   the cost  capitai goods  equipment other than second hand for indigenous capitai goods  equipments   acquired. Extent  loan  limit, however subject  Prudentiai norms Type  rate Floating rate Applicable rate Term loan interest rate . . .  per annum Moratorium   nine months Repayment period    years Interest payments Payable quarterlyExtent  loan  limit, however subject  prudentiai norms Type  rate Floating rate PLR .  Applicable rate PLR upto  per annum Moratorium    months Repayment period    years Interest payments Payable quarterly Note: Applicable rate  interest for term loan varies from PLR .     per annum depending  credit rating  the company. Note:  case  imported second hand capitai goods  equipments certificate from chartered engineer regarding the condition  the capitai goods  equipments and their expected residuai life has   provided. Financing for MSMEs 173. Short term loan Extent  loan  limit, however, subject  prudentiai norms Type  rate Fixed rate Applicable rate Term loan interest rate    bps .  per annum Moratorium   nine months Note: Totai installments and interest should  met  PDCs within nine months from disbursement. . . . . Schemes from the NABARD From the current year, the NABARD offers direct loan  SMEs and farm sectors.  wili also step  its fiscai support for the farming and agro sector  weli  the rurai India based MSMEs. Loan from banks with refinance facility from NABARD  available for starting many  the agriculturai activities including dairy farming. The margin money depends  the category  the borrowers and range from   . Banks are free  decide the rates  interest within the overali guidelines. However, for working out the financiai viability and bankability  the modei projects  has been assumed the rate  interest would   .  for ultimate borrowers. Scheme Nature  Assistance Amount Production CreditThis   short-term refinance facility, aimed  supporting agriculturai production operations and marketing  crops  farmers and farmers cooperatives marketing and distribution  inputs like fertilisers, seeds and pesticides. Production and marketing activities  village cottage industries, handicrafts, handlooms, power looms, artisans, smali scale and tiny industries and other rurai non-farm enterprises. Eligible institutions for this facility are state cooperative banks SCBs and regionai rurai banks RRBs. The period  credit   months. Short Term CreditThis   short term financing facility for agriculturai operations, pisciculture activities and distribution  agriculturai inputs. Refinance  provided for production purposes  concessionai rate  interest  state cooperative banks SCBs and regionai rurai banks RRBs  way  sanction  credit limits. Each withdrawai against the sanctioned credit limit  repayable within  months. Direct CreditSupporting cooperatives  order  strengthen the owned funds position  cooperative credit institutions and thereby increasing their capacity  leverage larger resources, NABARD provides loans  state governments  contribute  the share capitai  these institutions. Direct credit  provided  regionai rurai banks and government banks. Extent  loan  limit, however, subject  prudentiai norms Type  rate Fixed rate Applicable rate Term loan interest rate .  .  per annum Repayment  months Interest paymentsPayable quarterly4. Bridge loan WBIDC offers bridge loans     the admitted claim  state government incentives  per the following terms: . . Facilities under specific policies  Chhattisgarh . . . . Facilities under the Automotive Industries Policy -2o12 Details  facilities Schemes and rebates, grants and incentives VAT reimbursementLimited  maximum 115  the capitai investment for originai and ancillary unit, for  maximum period expiring before  years whichever  earlier. This rebate shali  equivalent  the VAT paid for the sale  finished products manufactured  automotive industriai units. The rebate shali  available  capitai investment incentive. The unit shali have  option  receive the incentive under this policy   avaii capitai investment grant under industriai policy,  applicable  the time. CST rebate For the period   years   the rate prevailing  that time. Entry tax exemption1oo rebate from purchase  first Raw materiai for the project for period   years. Electricity duty rebateFor the period   years from the date  commencing commerciai production. Stamp duty exemption1oo  sale lease related documents  land, buildings, sheds and flat. Exemption from registration fee1oo exemption  land, buildings, sheds and flat.  CII - PwC Details  facilitiesSchemes and rebates, grants and incentives Reimbursement Concession  VAT and centrai sales taxMaximum limit  15o  the fixed capitai investment,   maximum period   years. This exemption shali  equai  the amount  VAT and Centrai Sales Tax Act paid  connection with the sale  goods produced  the food processing units. This exemption wili   the form  capitai incentive assistance. The unit wili have option that they should get this incentive assistance under this policy  avaii benefit  fixed capitai investment subsidy applicable under the Industriai Policy  the state government,  force  that time. Calculation  assistance amount wili  done  the basis  VAT payable  sale and centrai sales tax payable  the interstate sale. Entry tax rebate Hundred per cent exemptions for the period  - years from the date  commencement  commerciai production. Electricai duty exemptionHundred per cent exemption for the period   years from the date  commencement  commerciai production Mandi tax exemptionTotai exemption  Mandi tax leviable  the agro few products shali  granted  the agro and food products processing units from the date  first purchase  raw materials from the Mandies  the state for the period  five years, maximum limit  the exemption wili  equai    the fixed capitai investment  the processing unitB. . . . Facilities under the Agro and Food Processing Industries Policy 2o12B. . Generai financing schemes These are few financing schemes drafted for the MSMEs, which the industry could approach for depending  their requirement. Almost ali the public sector banks  provide the following schemes. The MSMEs are advised  visit the Banks with their requirement  get more detailed information. Name Scheme particulars and workings SME Credit Card    lakh INR Loans are for the micro enterprises including SSI units, smali business enterprises, professionai and self employed persons, smali retaii traders, transport operators etc for meeting any kind  credit requirement including purchase  shops, maximum limit being  lakh INR including term loan and working capitai loan. The loan wili  sanctioned for three years with  annuai review. SME Smart Score    lakh INR The loan product  for manufacturing trade and services segments  meet working capitai needs and for acquisition  fixed assets.  simplified appraisai modei has been developed  standardise the appraisai process for loans    lakhs INR  SSI sector and    lakh INR for trade and services sector available with attractive interest rates. The loan wili  sanctioned for two years with  annuai review. SBI SMILE interest free loan  equity The scheme provides interest free loan  equity assistance towards part  margin requirements  the project,  assist eligible professionai and technically qualified entrepreneurs setting  new micro and smali enterprises and units covered under the bank  project uptake for technology upgradation. Equity assistance     maximum   lakh INR. The interest free loan  repayable  three years with  moratorium period  - years. Generai Purpose Term Loan for SSI sector    lakh INR This product  for existing borrowers for any generai commerciai purpose such  shoring   net working capitai, substitution  high cost debt,  , ISO certification, etc. subject  disbursement being made  line with the specific purpose approved. The maximum loan available   lakh INR repayable  maximum period  five years. Open Term Loan  to2.  crore INR  pre-sanctioned term loan with limit   .  crore INR for existing  new corporate  non-corporate customers  manufacturing sector and    crore INR for hotels, hospitals, educationai institutions  service sector. The sanctioned limit  valid for  year. Margin requirement  . The borrower can utilise pre-approved sanction  plan capitai expenditure and negotiate with suppliers  machinery and finalize best possible contract. Financing for MSMEs 19Name Scheme particulars and workings Corporate Loan from  lakh INR    crore INR The scheme provides term loan for ali existing customers and established non customers subject  takeover norms  the bank  manufacturing sector. Quantum  finance  minimum  lakh INR and maximum  crore INR for non-corporate and  cap for corporate borrowers.  margins are required under the scheme.  maximum  three corporate loans can  outstanding per borrower  any point  time. SME Credit Plus For existing and new borrowers this scheme provides  clean cash credit facility  meet contingencies. Under the scheme   aggregate   max  lakh INR fund based limit can  availed. Margins are not required and interest rate wili  same  applicable  cash credit limit. The facility  repayable  two months and can  availed for  times  year. Standby Line  Credit For existing units including export units,  additionai working capitai fund based and non-fund based limit  way  cash credit, packing credit and bills discounting against stock, receivables  meet contingencies such  bunching  orders, delay  shipment, sudden increase  raw materiai prices, mismatch  cash flows. Under this   aggregate working capitai  max  crore INR can  availed. Margins  applicable  originai limit. Rice Mili Plus Term loan for acquisition  machinery, factory building for modernisation, expansion and working capitai needs  rice mills engaged  milling, sorting, grading and polishing.  upper ceiling  loan amount. SME Collaterai Free Loan SMECFL Collaterai free loan for viable projects  micro and smali enterprises  manufacturing and service sector with maximum guarantee cover  to1 crore INR under the CGTMSE guarantee scheme for working capitai and term loan  NFB facilities. Traders Easy Loan Easy loan for specific business needs  traders, self-employed, smali business enterprises, agents engaged  purchase and sale  food grains etc. Loan can  availed for normai day  day business requirements  for purchase  equipment fixed assets. Loan  available    crore INR with very competitive rate  interest. Dai Mili Plus Term loan for dai mili owners for acquisition  machinery, factory building, modernization and ali working capitai needs. Artisan Credit CardMaximum loan under the scheme   lakh INR. The scheme provides loans  Artisans  meet their credit requirements both for investments  weli  working capitai   flexible manner  liberai rates  interest. Name Scheme particulars and workings SME Construction Equipment LoanMaximum loan available     crore INR with minimum margin applicable   . Tenure  loan can  extended   maximum  four years. Term loan for purchase  construction equipments viz. loaders, excavators, cranes etc. , for contractors and firms engaged  construction activity. SME Car Loan Loans for purchase  passenger cars, jeeps, multi utility vehicles, etc. ,  the promoter partner senior executives  the SME units having borrowing arrangements with the bank. . . Snapshot  bank-specific schemes Some  the bank specific schemes are outlined below. The MSMEs can contact the nearest regionai branch  the following banks  get more details  the schemes mentioned below. Banks Schemes State Bank  IndiaCommodity backed warehouse receipt financing, SSI loans, Traders easy loan scheme, Open term loan, Business current accounts, Retaii Trade, SBI Shoppe, SME Petro Credit, Smali business credit card, Paryatan Plus, Swarojgar credit card, etc. Bank  Baroda Baroda SME Gold Card, Baroda Vidyasthali Loan, KVIC-ISEC, Scheme for Financing Energy Efficiency Projects, Baroda Overdraft Against Land and Building, Baroda SME Loan Pack, Baroda Arogyadham Loan etc. Export Import banks  India Agri Finance, Severai Debt Restructuring schemes for Smali and Medium Enterprises SMEs etc. United Bank  IndiaUnited Doctor Plus, United Medicai Plus, United Mahila Udhyami Yojana, United Shilpi Card, United Udyogshree Yojana etc. Indian Bank IND SME secure,  Doctor Plus,  BPO finance,  Vidya mandir,  ayushman Scheme,   own shop etc. Centrai Bank  IndiaCent trade, Cent Doctor scheme etc. . . . . Entrepreneuriai development fund, Dealer finance program, SME hosiery   etc. Corporation BankOne-Time Settlement Scheme for NPA under SME, Corp Kisan Vehicle Loan Yojna, Corp Kisan Farm Mechanisation Scheme, Corp Kisan Tie- Loan Scheme, Corp Gram Mitra Yojana etc. Vijaya Bank Liquidity Finance  MSEs, Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme For MSE, Vijaya Kisan Card, Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme  MSE, etc.  CII - PwC Banks Schemes Union Bank  IndiaUnion high pride, Union support, Union transport, Union Cyber etc. . . . PNB vikash udyami, PNB SME sahayog scheme etc. Syndicate Bank Synd Vyapar, Synd Udyog, Synd Swarozgar Credit Card, Synd Laghu Udhyami Credit Card, Synd Generai Credit Card etc. Dena Bank Dena Shakti Scheme for women entrepreneurs, Scheme for financing wind mills Channei financing scheme for dealers suppliers etc. UCO bank SME Medium Term Loans, Scheme for Financing Energy Efficiency Projects etc. Allahabad Bank Micro, Smali Medium Enterprises MSME Advances etc. Andhra Bank Composite loan scheme, Composite loan scheme, Term Finance, Open cash credit OCC,  Power Tools Shakti etc. ICICI Bank Ltd. The ICICI bank edge, vendor bili discounting, SME dialogue etc. HDFC Bank Ltd. Working capitai finance, construction equipment loan, commerciai vehicle finance, Credit substitute, Export credit etc. Yes Bank Ltd. Working capitai loans, Term loans, Export finance etc. Axis Bank Financing  Non-Priority Sector Entities, Overdraft against Property, Financing  Priority Sector Entities, Term Loan against Property, Lease Rent Discounting, Business Loan for Property BLFP etc. Kotak Mahindra BankKotak Business Loan, Working Capitai Finance, Internationai Import Finance, Internationai export Finance. Financing for MSMEs 21Abbreviation Explanation ASIDE Assistance  States for Infrastructure Development  Exports CFC Common facility Center CGST Centrai Goods and Services Tax CGTMSE Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Smali Enterprises CII Confederation  Indian Industries CLCSS Credit Linked Capitai Subsidy Scheme CST Centrai Sales Tax DCC District -ordination Committee DFP Distributor finance Programme EFS Equipment Finance Scheme EMD Earnest Money Deposit GDP Gross Domestic Product GOI Government  India IADA Industriai Area Development Authority LOC lines  credit MSMED Micro, Smali, and Medium Enterprises Development MSMEs Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises Development NABARD Nationai Bank  Agriculture NEF Nationai Equity Fund NFSIT Nationai Venture Capitai Fund for Software and  NSIC Nationai Smali Industries Corporation OSIC Odisha Smali Industries Corporation PMEGP Prime Minister  Employment Generation Programme PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers  Security Deposit SFURTI Scheme  Fund for Regeneration  Traditionai Industries SIDA Smali Industries Development Agency SIDBI Smali Industry Development Bank  India SLBC State Levei Banker  Committees SMERA Smali and Medium Enterprises Rating Agency SMEs Smali and Medium Enterprises SVCL SIDBI Venture Capitai Fund Ltd TUF Technology Upgradation Fund VAT Value Added Tax  Venture Capitai WBFC West Bengai Financiai Corporation WBIDC West Bengai Industriai Development Corporation Ltd WBSIDC West Bengai Smali Industries Development Corporation LtdAppendix . - Abbreviations  CII - PwC About CII The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the growth  industry  India, partnering industry and government alike through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry led and industry managed organisation, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 117 years ago,   India  premier business association, with  direct membership  over 7ooo organisations from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo companies from around 4oo nationai and regionai sectorai associations. CII catalyses change  working closely with government  policy issues, enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and expanding business opportunities for industry through  range  specialised services and globai linkages.  also provides  platform for sectorai consensus building and networking. Major emphasis  laid  projecting  positive image  business, assisting industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with over 12o NGOs across the country carry forward our initiatives  integrated and inclusive development, which include health, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o12-, Reviving Economic Growth: Reforms and Governance, accords top priority  restoring the growth trajectory  the nation, while building Globai Competitiveness, Inclusivity and Sustainability. Towards this, CII advocacy wili focus  structurai reforms, both  the Centre and  the States, and effective governance, while taking efforts and initiatives  Affirmative Action, Skili Development, and Internationai Engagement  the next levei. With  offices including  Centres  Excellence  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, France, Singapore, South Africa, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 223 counterpart organisations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Confederation  Indian Industry  Netaji Subhas Road Kolkata - 7oooo1 Phone: o33-223o7727  1434 o33-223o3354 Fax: o33-223o1721 2231 27oo Emaii: ciier cii.  Reach  via our Membership Helpline: ---435 46244 --991o4 46244  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaAbout PwC India PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   sepa - rate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoop - ers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publica - tion represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  475 - March 2o13 MSME. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India