Title: pwc_multichannel-strategy
Date Published: 2013-06-03 10:50:13+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_multichannel-strategy.pdf
Word Count: 1621
Sentence Count: 147
Average Sentence Length: 17.25

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
customer: 64
service: 41
channels: 41
channei: 25
contact: 20
customers: 15
centre: 14
pwc: 14
multichannei: 13
web: 13
strategy: 12
services: 11
analytics: 11
cost: 11
support: 10
also: 9
multiple: 9
sociai: 9
optimisation: 9
effective: 9

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Multichannei strategy The right balance between customer experience and contact centre operations June 2o13  the increasingly competitive business scenario, the end--end customer experience and delight has become  new area, which  one can afford  neglect.    paramount importance  deliver superior services with differentiated experience, while aligning with the ever-changing customer preferences and needs. Thus,  multichannei strategy comes into play  this information-rich age. Leading businesses, today, are harnessing both traditionai and new service channels . . physicai outlet, field service, web, mobile, etc.  cater  both the segments  changing demographics across ali geographies. This  also providing customer access  new channels, while enhancing flexibility  delivering value  the customer. Customers expect   treated  multichannei buyers, empowered  use the web  research information about products,  purchase them and negotiate returns through any number  outlets. They, typically, examine products more than once, through multiple channels. For instance, they can research online, view  store, peruse  catalogue  home, access  mobile application, and then  online   further research before making their purchasing decisions. With these sophisticated multichannei strategies, many firms are enjoying strong bottom and top line growth  their businesses. Companies applying best practices strive  offer  sales experience that  uniformly consistent, convenient, relevant and responsive  customer needs across ali channels,  effectively execute demand generation   multichannei environment. The same wave was witnessed  the service part  the business value chain, wherein the customer could contact the service provider through  variety  service channels. The services were then offered  both traditionai and new service channels over-the-counter, telephony, emails, web portals, chat, -browsing, sociai media and mobile. These channels were utilised  industries extensively for servicing customers  different demographics. Over-the- counterSociai media, self-service and kiosksEmaii Web Phone ChatNext generation contact centre The emergence  new channels has enabled  new mix  service channels, which   package can  more efficient.  the same time they also increased the scope  confusion, thus, evolving the need  service channei optimisation. Though  lot  has been done  this direction,   too early  conclude that the issue  multichannei mix optimisation has been fully addressed and tackled successfully. These practices stili remain  the growth stage and significant opportunities lie ahead for businesses that can identify and exploit them  the fullest. With time these channels have matured and customer behaviour has also become demanding towards these services.  unhappy customer can air his  her grievances   company  webpage  weli  sociai media channels. This can adversely affect brand value. Under these circumstances,  integrated customer relationship management CRM system  required  give  36o-degree view  the customer and also provide analytics  optimise various service channels. Traditionai Web-enabled assisted serviceOver-the-counter Web portalsTelephony ChatEmaii -browsing Sociai media MobileThough expensive and resource-intensive, over-the-counter and telephony are highly effective channels and are weli-exploited  traditionai users. Emaii   easy, weli-understood, and effective service channei, but  lot depends  the type  service,  complex service enquiries can lead  multiple emaii interactions and may unnecessarily increase the cost. Emaii  best used for follow-ups with the customer. Web portals have been successfui   few industries, . . banking, insurance, telecom, etc. They have radically reduced the cost  service. For most standard service requests, effective FAQs and guided navigation  portals have been very effective. While web chat and -browsing has gained popularity  some industries . . travei portals, realty, etc. ,  must  used with caution.   resource-intensive and lacks adequate human touch. The sociai and mobility channels have great potentiai  pitched   the next wave  CRM .  sociai CRM. This  yet  integrate seamlessly with the legacy CRM  enhance customer view. Evolution  customer contact centre Technology has changed the way organisations manage their relationships with their customers. While many may argue this new reality, the consumer  increasingly   position  power,  comparison-shopping   wider- scale becomes the norm. Currently,  strong relationship with the customer   utmost importance, and the modern contact centre can facilitate this.  contact centre equips  organisation  create  two-way dialogue with their customers. Every contact with the customer   opportunity  understand the customer and upseli  cross-seli products. The customer interaction over issues positive  negative are documented and tracked   individuai basis, for future action. Contact centres were established  reduce cost. However, given the transfer  power from business organisations  the customer, cost reduction with effective customer satisfaction has become the priority for business organisations. Nevertheless,  became necessary  carefully determine which channels are effective  meeting the needs   particular customer. Not surprisingly, the amplified use  channels through which customers interact with organisations has resulted  increased expectations across ali channels. The customers are not merely satisfied with access  multiple channels but are also expecting the same levei and quality  service across ali channels.  addition, due  the    online accesses  -commerce businesses customers expect similar service from other businesses. The failure  offer such  support can act   trigger  migrate   competitor. The multichannei environment The contact centre has become  key organisationai stakeholder addressing customer needs, while constantly gaining knowledge about customers and influencing their perceptions. Its role  delighting customer has grown steadily with faster service and its availability across multiple touch points. The past decade has brought many emerging technologicai advancements  customer relationship management altering customer behaviour  equipping them with additionai tools  get serviced. Businesses were also aware  this change and started focussing  listening and engaging customer across multiple channels.  research  the Aberdeen Group states that  multichannei customer care strategy can achieve more than twice .   .  year--year improvement  customer satisfaction,  compared  their peers using  single channei. Though this justifies the need  migrate towards multichannei contact centres for delivering enhanced customer delight,  does not mean that simply adding  channei can improve performance results. Driving the incrementai performance gains through the add- channels requires  weli-defined strategy. Multiple channels contact centres are the organisations which use multiple channels emaii, OTC, telephony, web chats, sociai networks, etc.  deliver services pertaining  the business. Contact centre Live chat Sociai media Mobility solutions Service centre Kiosks Door -door service Web self -service IVR systems FAQ Increasing overlap  service channels The concept  multiple channels mix such  field services, self-services, and assisted services was introduced  target different segments  customers. These were targeted towards the elderly population and non-tech savvy customers, whereas the self-service was targeted  technologically advanced customers  reduce cost. The addition  service channels always overlaps with the existing channels. Key decision parameters for selecting appropriate service type Customer value:  the customer worth live assistance and  field service? Customer capabilities: Does the customer have access  the channei? Service complexity:    complex service issue?  , live assistance and  field service may prove less expensive overali. These overlaps shali always  effectively managed  enhance the -house systems and processes.  analysis  key KPI can also help organisations  define the service channei mix and gauge channei utilisation. The field servicing, self-servicing and assisted servicing channels work  tandem and  effective customer service strategy includes the option for the customer  switch the mode  service  required. Also, multiple factors must  considered when deciding the appropriate service mode and choice  channei for  customer segment. The world  any time, any where, and any channei Self-service   effort  gain  competitive edge  the market, many companies have implemented self-service solutions  deai with business pressures. The two forces driving companies  implement this are operating cost and competition. Companies are getting their customers    much  possible  the web, and move away from the high cost contact centre. The key benefits  self-service include the following: . Cost reduction: The self-service approach can slash the cost   customer interaction from  much   USD  the phone  .  USD online  potentiai savings   percent  just one transaction, Forrester Research. . Enhanced adaptability:   highly adaptable  increase  workload. . CRM . : Integration with sociai network sites, forums and competitor sites can act  feedback and works   efficient marketing tooi. . Downtime planning:  works 24x7, 365 days and downtimes can  planned. . Multilinguai system:  can support more than one language  reduced cost. . Device interoperability:  can  used  more than one device such  phones, laptops, , mobiles, tablets, etc. . Build credibility:  provides better mode  building credibility, . . , awards, affiliations, recognitions, forum rankings, visitor counter, testimonies and reviews, list  guest  clients, etc. Self-service   type  electronic support that allows customers  access information and perform routine tasks over the web, without requiring any interaction with  representative   enterprise.   widely used  CRM and employee relationship management ERM. KPI Definition Benchmarks Self-service rate Number  visits  the support site that  not result   emaii, chat,  any assisted online support channei into the contact centre  Percentage  positive knowledge base responses from customers Percentage  customers that positively responded  the question  was this answer helpfui?   knowledge base article    Percentage  returning visitors  the support pages New  returning unique visitors  the support pages More the better Percentage  visits from third party search  the online support site Visits that originate from search engines such  Google  Bing  questions, and end   the support page  Voice  the customer satisfaction data Data from pop- surveys  visitors  the site that ask the question  how satisfied are you with the overali support experience? Positive data from the surveysKPI  self-service and its benchmarks Optimisation  service channels  multichannei contact centre operates  complex interactive environment. The road towards  dream contact centre involves capturing customer feedback  find relevant channels, seamless integration  channels with existing systems and back-end systems ensuring optimai channei performance.  propose  four-stage strategy  optimise the service channei mix involving analysis and optimisation  existing channels, redefining channei strategy and its implementation.  aim  generate few savings during the second stage and reinvest    part  the revised strategy for more returns. The direct saving wili   terms  improved first cali resolution FCR, increased customer satisfaction, reduced cost  serve, reduced customer churn and cali deflation due  self-service channels. The indirect savings wili  mainly through higher customer knowledge. The first step involves  thorough analysis  services, customer and channels. The key analysis  this step involves knowing service characteristics, customer segmentation and preferences and channei suitability. Once this  established  selection  channels can  made. The key factors which drive the selection are the volumes, extend  standardisation, service complexity, human intervention needs and customer  propensity  self-service. Phone Web Emaii Sociai Media Chat CRM Phone Survey Spee  Non-Speech Other Keywor  and topics Emotion detection Talk over analysis Cali flow analysis Web interaction analytics Keywor  and topics Sentiment analysis Chat response time Desk top analytics Customer demographics Interaction history Customer feedbackCustomer satisfaction Misinformed Mislead Frustration levei Happiness Percentage  second time callersSuite  analytics for different service channels Many might feei that these solutions are fit for large-scale businesses. Adoption  these technologies and practices  not determined  the size but  the organisation  focus  adopting best practices  achieve success through multichannei contact centre initiatives. Strategic framework for service channei mix optimisation The three dimensions  service, channei and customer results  optimisation plan for service, thus, redefining channei strategy. One  the major activities  this whole process  channei integration,   customer these days switches channei even   single transaction. The best solution for this problem wili   generate  single view   customer which gets updated  each channei. The problem discussed  one  the early examples  this document can  addressed only through  single view. Ensuring success  the redefined strategy depends  how weli the company can incentivise its customer  migrate   more efficient and effective service channels. This switching not only requires process reengineering and technology  execute them, but persuasive tactics  encourage people  move, where effective training and change management comes into the picture. Though, technology  the key enabler  this initiative  equip agents with ability  manage multichannei customer interactions but contact centre analytics also help businesses  analyse the effectiveness  each channei  increasing customer satisfaction, while reducing contact costs. These analytics include speech analytics, non-voice analytics and various other analytics. Every customer contact gives  lead about customer expectations and satisfaction.     the levei  analytics  organisation deploys for gauging these characteristics and then reorienting its channels  maximise customer satisfactionAnalysis   isting channels Optimisation   isting channels Redefining channei strategy Implementing the revised strategyAnalysis  service Analysis  chann  Analysis  customer Customer experience improvementRouting optimisationChannei integration and data exchangeIVR optimisation Channei optimisation based  customer profitabilit  4Deployment  IVR, CTI, WFM and QMAdvanced  analytics Single customer viewChange management and training aspectsIncentivising channei switchingSociai media monitoringRoot cause analysi  Campai gning Incentivising Cross-referring Forcing shifts TrainingRepeated services Periodic services Fault services SOS servicesSegregate customer Interactions across channels FCR analysi  Load analysi  Satisfaction index analysi  Cross-channei analysi  Scope for self-help servicesDemographic factors Switching incentives Propensity  customer  self-serve Customer profiling and multi-criteria based segmentation for channei usage and preference IVR: Interactive Voice Response CTI: Customer Telephony Integration WFM: Workforce Management : Quality Management About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc www. pwc.  This publication has been prepared for generai guidance  matters  interest only, and does not constitute professionai advice. You should not act upon the information contained  this publication without obtaining specific professionai advice.  representation  warranty express  implied  given   the accuracy  completeness  the information contained  this publication, and,  the extent permitted  law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept  liability, and disclaim ali responsibility, for the consequences  you  anyone else acting,  refraining  act,  reliance  the information contained  this publication  for any decision based  . Without prior permission  PwCPL, this publication may not  quoted  whole   part  otherwise referred   any documents. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  49o- Aprii 2o13 Multichannei Strategy. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India