Title: pwc_north-east_summit-2013
Date Published: 2013-01-07 16:42:51+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_north-east_summit-2013.pdf
Word Count: 4618
Sentence Count: 548
Average Sentence Length: 13.93

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
region: 94
india: 86
development: 53
wili: 48
north: 35
states: 33
also: 32
east: 31
trade: 30
economic: 29
growth: 28
road: 27
state: 26
country: 24
ner: 23
infrastructure: 22
border: 22
assam: 22
icc: 21
nationai: 21

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

India  North-East Diversifying Growth Opportunities www. pwc. com  INDIAN CHAMBER  COMMERCE  ICC - PwC Report   socially, and economically sustainable, India  growth story needs   inclusive. However, the country  north east has been experiencing  comparatively slower pace  industrialisation and socio-economic growth. Though the region  blessed with abundant naturai resources for industriai development and sociai development, they have not been utilised  their fuli potentiai. The region has certain distinct advantages.   strategically located with access  the traditionai domestic market  eastern India, along with proximity  the major states  the east and adjacent countries such  Bangladesh and Myanmar. The region  also  vantage entry point for the South-East Asian markets. The resource-rich north east with its expanses  fertile farmland and  huge talent pooi could turn into one  India  most prosperous regions. Yet, owing  its unique challenges,  believe that conventionai market-based solutions may not work here, given the issues related  poor infrastructure and connectivity, unemployment and low economic development, law and order problems, etc. The government and the private sector need  collaborate and take the lead  providing solutions  these problems. More reform needs   initiated   range  areas, such  investment  agriculture, hydei power, infrastructure  weli   creating new avenues  growth through the development  vertically integrated food processing chains, market- linked skili development and cross-border trade.  multiple avenues for growth and development emerge,    paramount importance that the region,   collective identity, embarks   vibrant journey  realise the dreams   better future. This vision can  realised only through the combined effort  ali stakeholders. This report delineates these opportunities and attempts  provide new insights  the ongoing interventions  raise the north east  India  higher levels  inclusive economic development. Foreword  Rajiv Mundhra President Indian Chamber  CommercePartha Kundu Executive Director, Consulting PwC India Introduction ConclusionDemographics and sociai infrastructure Agriculture Opportunities for investment  agriculture and food processing Physicai infrastructurePower Skili development Border trade Conclusion Bibliography List  acronymso5 India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 5Introdu ction India  north east region NER  endowed with huge untapped naturai resources and  acknowledged  the eastern gateway for the country  Look East Policy. The region  witnessing  series  insurgencies and  alienated from the economic resurgence that the rest  the country  experiencing. The World Bank describes conditions  the region   low-levei equilibrium  poverty, non-development, civii conflict and lack  faith  politicai leadership. The states comprising the NER, while unique  most respects, have similar economic and geographicai attributes that merits speciai policy interventions. However,  spite  being endowed with vast naturai resources  terms  forests, biologicai diversity, hydro- electricity, the region has remained largely underdeveloped.  key constraint  the growth has been poor infrastructure and limited connectivity, both within the region  weli  with the rest  the country. The region, connected  the rest  India   narrow stretch  land called the chicken  neck, needs infrastructure  support and ensure significant investments and developmentai aids. Exploitation  the large hydro potentiai  the NER could  used for exporting  the power deficit northern and western regions  the country. The spili-over benefits for the region wili  the development  infrastructure such  roads, communications, and electricity supply  remote hilly areas, resulting  better quality  life. The improvement  power generation wili  turn help  establishing lead industries . . , cement  annulling the effects  high transportation costs. This  turn wili help  skilling workers  modern industry oriented production activities and address the gap  the ready availability   industriai workforce  the region. Opening  and augmenting trade with the neighbouring countries such  Bangladesh, Myanmar and through Myanmar  South East Asia wili also help  realising the fuli potentiai  the region. Considering that development  any kind, particularly infrastructure,  this part  India wili  associated with socio-politicai issues such  land acquisition and displacement  people, the policy and aids  the centrai and state governments should address these issues  accelerate the completion  developmentai projects. Recently, the government has taken severai steps  overcome these infrastructurai bottlenecks  induce sustainable development  the region. The strong focus  roads, airports and hydropower developments are some  the key steps  this direction. Based  this framework, the report tries  give  low- down  the development  specific actions and policy improvements towards corrective measures  follows:  enhance the region  capacity through appropriate policy framework with  eye  the ASEAN markets  highlight the need for infrastructure and capacity building measures and focus  policies  create enabling environments for the export market  identify potentiai areas for future investment and product development based  regionai comparative advantages Demographics and Sociai infrastructure The region comprises eight states-Arunachai Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura and Assam. Occupying   India  geographicai spread, the states are home  only   the country  population, while Assam accounts for   the population. The region stands way below  comparison with the rest  India  socio-economic indicators.  per the 2oo1 census, the annuai per capita income  NER  , 625 INR against the rest  India average  , 254 INR. Nearly .   the population  below poverty line  compared  the nationai average  . . However, the NER   highly literate region. Except for Arunachai Pradesh, ali the other states have literacy rates about  above nationai average  .  which provides  good pooi  educated human resources  the region. Ali the eight states have different developmentai prospects and resources  support their efforts  contributing  the regionai  weli  nationai economy.  criticai appraisai  the key economic indicators along with  detailed sketch  the individuai strengths  the seven states  necessary  achieve  holistic framework  target growth  the region.  ICC - PwC ReportAgriculture The region  endowed with  varied topography and agro-climactic conditions which offer vast potentiai for agriculture, horticulture and forestry. However, the region  lagging  agriculturai development contrary  the nationai ethos. Reasons include  lack  appropriate strategies for the development  naturai resources, inadequate infrastructure facilities and low adoption  improved technology. The region, which  heavily dependent  the agriculture sector, needs  green revolution  eradicate poverty and boost its economy. Such  green revolution must  adequately backed  financiai institutions, marketing functionaries and  . Share   states  production  major crops 2oo8-  state Rice Wheat Cereals Pulses Food grains Oii seeds Prod Share Prod Share Prod Share Prod Share Prod Share Prod Share Arunachai Pradesh163.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  255.  .  .  .  Assam 4oo8.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4143.  .  137.  .  Manipur 397.  .  - - .  .  .  .  415.  .  .  .  Meghalaya 2o3.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  236.  .  .  .  Mizoram .  .  - - .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  Nagaland 345.  .  .  .  127.  .  .  .  514.  .  .  .  Sikkim .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1o7.  .  .  .  Tripura 627.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  634.  .  .  .   Region 5813.  .  .  .  337.  .  143.  .  6365.  .  26o.  .  Ali India 99182.  1oo 8o679.  1oo 4oo37.  1oo 14566.  1oo 234466.  1oo 27719.  1oo Note: Production  thousand tonnes Share share  ali India production Source: Agriculturai Statistics   Glance, Ministry  Agriculture, Government  India. Current scenario Agriculture provides livelihood    the region  population.  Mizoram, around   the population lives  rurai areas and  dependent  agriculture. The figure  Sikkim  high  . However, the pattern  agriculturai growth has remained uneven across regions. The states continue   net importers  food grains even for their own consumption. Forest cover 2o11 States Geographicai area Forest cover Forest cover Aruanchai 83743 6741o .  Assam 78438 27673 .  Manipur 22327 17o9o .  Meghalaya 22429 17275 .  Mizoram 21o81 19117 .  Nagaland 16579 13318 .  Sikkim 7o96 3359 .  Tripura 1o486 7977 .  NER 262179 173219 .  Ali India 3287263 692o27 .  Area    Source: Forest Survey  IndiaThis  due  the limited land available for agriculture. The region has  forest cover  more than .  ranging from .   Assam  .   Mizoram against the nationai average  . . Even though,  accounts for about   the totai geographicai area  the country,  has only .   land for agriculturai purposes CMIE, 2oo7.  contributes only .   the totai agriculturai production, underscoring the low productivity  the region RBI, 2oo5. India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 7Rubber and bamboo are among the important agriculturai produces which can attract  lot  investment opportunities. Tripura  the chief production hub and has been declared  the second rubber capitai  India right after Kerala  the Indian Rubber Board. The state has the potentiai  produce , ooo hectares  rubber the available plantation area  , 76o hectares. Other rubber producing states  the region are Mizoram and Assam. Coupled with the fact that globally India ranks third  the production and fourth  the consumption  rubber creates  huge market for investors. The  states also produce  substantiai percentage  bamboo, accounting for   India  production value and   the globai production value. Mizoram alone contributes  around   the country  bamboo production. While India  bamboo market  expected  grow  .  billion USD  2o15, the   Industriai Development Organisation estimates the   bamboo production  grow   .  billion USD  the same period. The region  comparative advantages  producing fruits, vegetables and other horticulture products can  tapped  setting  smali-scale processing units for the locai market which wili also boost rurai employment. This set-  economically viable  weli  doable   smali processing unit requires little capitai. The region produces  large amount  spices such  chillies, gingers, mustard seeds, fruits and vegetables which can  processed and marketed locally. Arunachai Pradesh has taken  the cultivation  horticulture produce especially  sub-tropicai fruits   large scale with assistance from the government.  Mizoram, which accounts for   the totai fruits produced  the north east,  speciai purpose vehicle SPV has been formed with private sector companies  set   plant for the processing  turmeric, ginger, chilly, fruits and other horticulture products.  Manipur, organic farming  the most sought-after practice  the hili areas. The state government has given speciai impetus  farming for pineapple, passion fruit, mushroom, etc.   massive scale. With proper processing, many  the agri-horticulturai crops  the state look promising for export. Another focus area for the agro based industry  the processing for extracts  spices, medicinai and herbai plants. The state government has established  food park  Nilakuthi with  project cost  .  million USD. This park wili provide common facilities like cold storage, warehouse, quality controi laboratories, packaging, tooi room, power and water supply, sewerage treatment, etc. The Nagaland Food Private Limited NFPL established  the Dimapur Industriai Estate specializes  bamboo shoot processing, pineapple, passion fruit and orange juice processing. The food and meat processing sector also provides immense potentiai for investment  the state. The Nagaland Industriai Development Corporation has received approvai for developing  agro and food processing SEZ  Dimapur. There  also scope for dairy processing and poultry, fishery processing  the region. There  huge demand for dried fish  the region, processing  which  not capitai intensive. The Nationai Dairy Development Board NDDB, which has extensive experience  mobilising producers  milk, vegetables  weli  other areas, could play  key enabling role  this process. Increase  milk production wili encourage the milk, butter and cheese processing industry  the region. Private entrepreneurs need   encouraged  set  storage, distribution and marketing infrastructure such   cold storage chain along major arteriai highways. This wili help exploit the horticulture potentiai  the region and bring perishables speedily  marketing hubs. For cold chain operations,  public-private partnership PPP  lease could also  explored. Similar initiatives can already  seen  Meghalaya and Mizoram where flowers are being distributed outside the region   private distributor, Zopar, which also supplies seed varieties  farmers. Constraints  spite  the efforts  the MOFPi and regionai development organizations such  the NeDFI, challenges remain  realizing the fuli potentiai  the region  agriculturai resources. Fragmented land holdings  smali and marginai farmers which dominate the landholding pattern  the north east  uneconomicai. The region has low proportion  irrigated area and investment  building irrigation capacity has been insufficient and ineffective. The use  agriculturai inputs  the north east  also low compared  the rest  the country. Fertilisers used per hectare during 2o1o- were negligible  the region, especially  Nagaland .  , Arunachai Pradesh .  ; and ranged between    Meghalaya and    Assam compared  the nationai average  135.   per hectare. Also the share  agriculture  totai electricity used  just under   ali the north-eastern states, except Tripura . ,  against the nationai average  . . Opportunities for investment  agriculture and food processing  ICC - PwC ReportPhysicai infrastructure Roads and railways Road   important mode  travei  the hilly areas  other mode  travei  either too expensive  difficult. The road infrastructure  relatively deficient  the NER although the region  road density per capita  significantly higher  compared  the rest  the country. Given the low density  population and the hilly terrain  the region this   expected outcome. The road length per unit area  higher only  Nagaland, Assam, and Tripura. Road density, 2oo8 States Road density per 1ooo  KmRoad density per 1ooo population Arunachai 196.  .  Assam 2936.  .  Manipur 739.  .  Meghalaya 438.  .  Mizoram 292.  .  Nagaland 1345.  .  Sikkim 263.  .  Tripura 3o26.  .  India 965.  .  Source: . Materiai supplied  TRW,   Road Transport Highways . Annuai Report, published    Road Transport Highways Excludes roads constructed under JRY and PMGSY Road lengths  India: 2o11- States Arunachai PradeshAssam Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Sikkim Tripura Nationai highways , 992 , 836 959 81o 927 494  4oo State highways -- , 134 668 , 134 259 4o4 186 689 Major district roads , 169 , 413 964 , 219 -- , 387 , 72o  Rurai roads , 455 , , 85o , 3o5 , 569 , 972 , o95 , 326 , 415 Urban roads  , 664 21o 11o 325  162 28o Project roads , o88 , 493 -- 94o  269  , 346 Sources: Ministry  Road Transport Highways, CMIE States  India 2oo7- data 2o1o- dataTo address this The Ministry  Road Transport and Highways Morth has been paying speciai attention  the development  nationai highways  the region. The ministry has earmarked   the totai allocation for the  region. The totai length  NHs  the region  , 48o  and these are being developed and maintained  three agencies-the state Public Works Departments, Border Road Organization BRO and Nationai Highway authority  India NHAI.  the totai length  , 48o , about , 118   with the BRO and , 4o9   with the respective state PWDs. The remaining length  953   with the NHAI. There has also been  speciai thrust  building the road infrastructure. Sufficient funds have also been allocated  building the road infrastructure  the  states. The states have , 473   NHs, , 711   state highways, and , 154   major district roads. The states have funds from various agencies such  Asian Development Bank, etc.  upgrade the worn out state roads.  most  states, village and district roads are dominant. These roads are particularly important for facilitating intra- state movement  people and freight.  snapshot  the road lengths  the various states  the region   follows: India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 9The major road programmes that are being undertaken  the region are  follows: . Nationai Highway Development Programme NHDP -  proposes  link the east-west corridor beginning  Porbandar, Gujarat  the  through  678  four-lane highway connecting Silchar  Srirampur via Lumding- Daboka-Nagaon-Guwahati  Assam. This has been entrusted  the NHAI under the NHDP phase-. . NHDP-III proposes  widen , o51  stretches  various NHs  improve connectivity  state capitai towns. Nationai Highway Development Programme III  . State Stretch Length   Assam Nagaland Daboka-Dimapur 124  Naaland Manipur Kohima-Imphai 14o  Meghalya Assam Shillong-Churaibari 252  Assam Mizoram Silchar-Aizwai 19o . The Arunachai package envisages improving the connectivity  the Arunachai dramatically. The package incorporates the following: Construction  public roads  link the hydei power project Four-lane connectivity  Itanagar Two-lane connectivity  district headquarters Trans-Arunachai highway . Speciai Accelerated Road Development Programme for North East SARDP- Phases  and  wili cover construction and improvement  , 737   road length. Major objectives  this programme includes providing  two-lane  connectivity  ali state capitals with East-west corridor, providing connectivity  ali district headquarter  NER   least  two-lane road and providing inter-connectivity  ali the state capitals   least  two-lane . Besides, there   proposai  connect India and Myanmar through  single road running  either side  the borders. Earlier, the stretch  road  Myanmar was  start from Kaletwa, which wili now start from Paletwa. The DPR for this new stretch  being prepared.  India, the road   start from Lawngtlai  Mizoram. The technicai specification  the road has been revised and consequently revised cost estimates are being worked out. Railways are the best mode  mass transportation  the country. However,  the hilly terrains  the NER   difficult and expensive  setup raii networks. This accounts for the absence  nominai presence  railway lines  hilly states like Arunachai Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Mizoram. Even  Nagaland and Tripura the railway route has been setup  the plain areas  the region. State-wise density  railways routes  north eastern region  India States UTs Route kilometresArea square kilometresRoute kilometres per 1ooo  kms.  Area Arunachai Pradesh1.  83743 .  Assam 2283.  78438 .  Manipur .  22327 .  Meghalaya  22429  Mizoram .  21o81 .  Nagaland .  16579 .  Sikkim  7o96  Tripura 151.  1o492 .  NER 2452.  262185 .  India 64o14.  3287869 .  Source: Rajya Sabha Unstarred Question . 1467, dated  . . 2o1o.  the Raii Budget 2o12-,  survey for railway electrification project has been sanctioned for Assam.  also envisaged bringing the northern banks  the Brahmaputra river under raii connectivity. Tripura  another state  the NER where development  railway infrastructure  picking  weli. From 2ooo  2o1o, the length  railway route  Tripura has increased from    152 . There are three major railway stations located  Dharmanagar, Agartala and Kumarghat. The government has proposed    metre gauge railway line between Agartala Tripura and Akhaura Bangladesh.  addition, there   proposed railway-link   developed between Agartala and Sabroom, covering 11o  and expected   complete  2o14.  Arunachai, the nearest railway station  location  Harmoti  Assam   from Itanagar. The major functionai raii head linking Manipur with the rest  India   Dimapur Nagaland, 215  away from Imphai. However,  railway line from Jiribam  the Manipur-Assam border  under construction   nationai priority project.   expected  connect Imphai with the rest  India  2o16. New railway lines  Azra-Byrnihat, Dudnoi-Mehendipather and Byrnihat- Shillong routes  Meghalaya are under construction. The construction  the extension   vitai broad gauge raii link between Bairabi raii terminus  the Mizoram-Assam border and Sairang,  village   west  Aizawi,   progress.  Sikkim raii connectivity  being created between Rangpoo and Siliguri  West Bengai.  railway track  also   laid for connecting Agartala with Akhaura  Bangladesh.  ICC - PwC ReportAirways and waterways Inland water transport can   viable, cost-effective alternative  the plain areas  NER given the high cost  expanding other mode  transportation.  wili also create employment opportunities, promote tourism and open  inter-country routes for trade and commerce. However, the following needs   done: There   need  improve facilities for night navigation and mechanicai handling. Cargo vessels and terminals should  increased  meet the rising demands. Emphasis should   PPPs for the development  fairways and infrastructure  IWT. Major river routes  the NER are the Brahmaputra and the Barak  Assam which has  combined navigable length  around , ooo .  ali the NER has about , 839   navigable river routes. There are seven operationai port locations  the state for import and export  the Kolkata and Haldia ports. There   inland container depot ICD  Amingaon,   from Guwahati, operated  the Container Corporation  India Ltd CONCOR. Waterway connectivity between Mizoram and the port  Akyab Sittwe  under construction and this could lead  enhanced trade opportunities within the country. The  region has one internationai airport  Guwahati, Assam-the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi Internationai LGBI Airport. The Airport Authority  India AAI plans  make  one  the major internationai airports, connecting Southeast Asia with India. Besides, Assam has six domestic airports  Guwahati, Tezpur, Jorhat, Dibrugarh, Silchar and North Lakhimpur. During 2o11- , the Guwahati airport received .  million passengers. Mizoram has one operationai airport  Lengpui where daily air connectivity  available through multiple air carriers.  2oo9-, Lengpui airport handled , 79o aircrafts with 12o, ooo passengers. The Shillong airport Umroi Airport  fully-operationai, while the Baljek Airport  under construction and upgradation.  Sikkim, the airport construction  underway  Pakyong.  greenfield airport has been proposed near Itanagar, for which environmentai clearance has been received  Aprii 2o1o. The Ministry  Civii Aviation has also planned  operationalise airports  Daporijo and Tezu  Arunachai. Nagaland has one operationai airport  Dimapur.  second airport  being planned for Kohima. Under the Look-East Policy, improved links with internationai neighbours   priority. Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar and TAR should  connected  Guwahati  addition  Bangkok. Another internationai airport for the southern part  NER  Agartala can  prioritized. Power The region  endowed with perenniai rivers and water bodies, therefore,  has  huge hydroelectricity potentiai. This potentiai,  tapped weli, can  used  export power  other regions  the country. The spili-over benefits wili  the development  infrastructure such  roads, communications, and electricity supply  remote hilly areas, resulting  better quality  life. States such  Arunachai Pradesh, Sikkim and Meghalaya have huge potentiai  hydropower generation. Identified potentiai  Capacity yet   developed Many policies such  the , oooMW hydro initiative, the Hydro Policy 2oo8 have been formulated  the centrai government  promote investment  hydropower  the region. Under the Mega Power Policy, the qualifying threshold capacity for setting  hydropower plants  the region and for availing the speciai benefits thereof  35o , whereas for the rest  the country,   5oo . Under the Hydro Policy 2oo8 the project developers  the centrai and state sector can explore the possibility  foreign assistance  finance their projects. This assistance  already being utilised  NEEPCO for Pare Hydro Electric Project and MeSEB for Renovation and Modernisation  Umiam  HEP. India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 11As per the North Eastern Industriai and Investment Promotion Policy NEIIPP, 2oo7  Ministry  Commerce and Industry, the whole  NER has been declared  SEZ and many subsidies, tax exemptions and waivers are offered  cost  infrastructure, transport, power, etc. The centrai government  also promoting private sector  the region  boost investment  the power sector. About , ooo  has already been allotted  private players  NER for development  part  the , ooo  hydro initiative. Skili development According  the study  development and employment generation potentiai  the north-eastern states, between 2o11 and 2o21, the region wili have only .  million jobs. And half  this demand wili   Assam alone, which  about , 234, 357 jobs.  opposed  the low demand, there wili also   supply   million people  2o11-2o22,  excess   million job seekers. The region wili generate .  million jobs, but the manpower supply wili  .  million persons.  there   need for  twin approach for developing skills for both locai employment and for those who seek  migrate. For this, the North Eastern Councii NEC and the Ministry  Development  North Eastern Region DoNER have prepared the Vision 2o2o.  envisages the following targets  2o2o: Overali GSDP growth   CAGR  .  between 2oo7-  and 2o19- Overali per capita income growth  .  between 2oo7-  and 2o19-  support this vision, the Ministry  Development  North Eastern Region has formulated  strategic plan 2o1o-. Following are the highlights  the plan: Building capacities and competencies  criticai sectors  the region Preparing  plan  action for building capacities and competencies  criticai sectors Identifying institutes and organisations for imparting training and building capacities  the region Setting   training institutes  the region  important fields through line Ministries, NEC  states Augmenting the capacity  the existing training institutes  the north eastern states Using    tooi  upgrade skills  realise the economic potentiai the region holds,   imperative  utilise the demographic advantages and parameters that wili lead  market linked skili development. The key thrust areas that evolve from  analysis  these parameters are  follows: The forest plays  major part  the economies  these states. Sadly, the NER forest resources are facing degradation and deforestation. Large investment outlays for capacity building  knowledge and skills centres aimed  preserving the ecology are required. The states are unable  address such resource needs. Planned outlays  training and awareness for imparting correct skills-set  the community for the states  preserve the biomass  required. Institutions  higher education focussing  environment sciences viz. forest sciences, sociai forestry, botany, environment and ecology sciences, etc. need  come  for building locai community awareness  ensure conservation  NER  forest resources. The agriculturai growth has been uneven across NER, which comprises   India  totai geographicai area but produces only .   the nation  foodgrains. The NER has not been able  benefit from the Green Revolution  much  the rest  the country. Agriculture, horticulture, animai husbandry and fisheries are important livelihoods but have low levels  productivity. Poor connectivity has compounded the constraints  logistics, preservation and distribution  the perishable produce. This makes farm prices unremunerative, deters the growth  food processing industries, cultivation  vegetables and commercialisation  fruits and spices, even with investments  marketing and storage facilities. -Agriculturai universities need  encourage research  improved cropping and productivity that wili address food stockpiling needs for meeting locai demand. Equally important are the training institutes  food processing. -Given the huge reservoirs  oii and gas hydrocarbons, there   opportunity  train the locai population  trades relating  exploration and production  oii and gas.  ICC - PwC ReportMatrix mapping resource occurences, economic potentiai and higher and vocationai education opportunities  the region Source: -defining Higher Education  the East,  PwC report India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities  -The entire region has tremendous potentiai for generating hydro-electric power and there wili always  demand for engineers and technicians  generation, transmission and distribution  electricity. -Prospects for this sector  development are common place  almost the entire NER. Therefore, there   need  build  skills-set and human capitai  the areas  vocationai and technicai training, sericulture, use  modern tools and implements  help provide  scientific basis  further enrich traditionai skills that help produce handloom and handicrafts having unique geographicai origin. -The rich culturai canvas, the flora and fauna  the region calls for  measured policy intervention that should aim  preserving and economically exploiting the culturai heritage.  growth  tourism wili  followed  growth  the hospitality sector. This region has  large English speaking population that finds employment  the hospitality industry across India and outside. There are thus opportunities for leveraging the locai talent  setting  training institutes  hospitality and hotei management. -Good English language skills also can find employment  cali centres and the government can create the environment  improving connectivity and adding courses  its ITIs for this trade. Policymakers are finally creating  framework and inviting private investors  higher education, filling  glaring shortage that has  the past seen students  the region migrating  the rest  the country. The sector has tili date received investments  the tune  3oo crore INR, and projects worth 2oo crore INR are  the pipeline.  least three  four private universities are looking  soon start operations. Some  the initiatives are  the public private partnership mode. Meghalaya, for instance, has inked  memorandum  understanding with the Internationai Finance Corporation for starting the Shillong Medicai College. The Assam government,  partnership with the Tata Group, while Oii India,  starting the Indian Institute  Information Technology and Advanced Sciences IIITAS. Emphasis wili   industry-interface research and development relevant  Assam, besides skili development, helping the youth  the state   employable here and elsewhere. While the centre wili hold  .  stake  the project, the state government wili hold , and the Tata Group and OIL wili hold the remaining stake. Incentives  invest  per the North Eastern Industriai and Investment Promotion Policy NEIIPP 2oo7  the Ministry  Commerce and Industry, the region has been declared  speciai economic zone SEZ. The centrai government has implemented various schemes  attract investors. These are  follows: Subsidy    the transport cost  raw materials brought from outside the region  weli  the finished goods sent from the region  other parts  the country. The transport cost between Siliguri the entry point  the north east and the factory site only  considered for subsidy calculations.  addition, subsidy  also available    transport cost  movement  raw materials and    transport cost  movement  finished goods from one state  another within the region. Income tax exemption for five years for the new industriai units set   the region. Growth centres and IIDCs   converted into totai tax free zones for the next ten years. Similar benefits wili also  extended  new industriai units  their substantiai expansion  other growth centres  IIDCs  industriai estates, parks, export promotion zones set   the states. Similar benefits wili also  provided  units located outside the specified locations,  they belong  the specified industries listed  Annexture   the Indian government circular. Capitai investment subsidy CIS    investment  plant and machinery, subject   maximum ceiling   lakh INR wili  given. Eligibility conditions wili  same   case  tax benefits. Interest subsidy    working capitai loans wili  provided for  period   years. Eligibility conditions wili  same   case  tax benefit.  comprehensive insurance scheme for industriai units   designed,  consultation with GIC and 1oo premium   borne  the Indian government for  years.  ICC - PwC ReportBorder trade With the emergence  globalisation, economic integration among nations has become  necessity. Cross-border trade  the most important medium  the current wave  globalisation.  this process, knowingly  unknowingly the north east economy has emerged    new dimension  cross-border trade informai trade with neighbouring nations and that increases sociai welfare  the poor masses  the region. Under the Look East policy, India seeks economic cooperation with ASEAN and other neighbouring countries through the gateway  the region. The North East  located   crossroads between three major economies East Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia. This geopoliticai advantage, has however, not really translated into the region  economic development. Despite the high growth  India  trade ties with Southeast Asia and China  the recent past, the Northeast  role has been marginai  terms  its contribution  trade and   trade route. The Northeast has not been able  integrate and benefit from the various regionai and sub-regionai initiatives that neighbouring countries have created. Out  India  export volume  about 254.  billion, the Northeast  share  only about .  billion. The Planning Commission  report  North east  border trade with the neighbouring countries shows that the region mainly exports primary products like boulder stone, limestone, fruits, tea, coai etc. Nearly  per cent  exports from the region consist  tea and coai.  the other hand, manufactured goods have  negligible presence  the export basket. Even the manufactured goods produced  areas other than North East are not very significant  officiai border trade  order  benefit from the cross border trade initiatives industries  the region need  develop goods   exported  the neighbouring countries. Processing industries have   set   manufacture quality goods, which can  offered  internationai markets  acceptable prices. Infrastructure and connectivity improvements  terms  strategic roads  border areas  weli  Integrated Check Posts and border trade points need   developed. This wili also lead  reduced informai trade between  and the neighbouring regions. Trade with Bangladesh The World Bank statistics  India  trade status with Bangladesh points out the following interesting facts: Over   Bangladeshi imports come from India. Bangladesh has  large trade deficit with India; this  offset  surpluses with other countries. Bangladeshi exports  India receive tariff concessions under SAFTA. They account for less than   totai India  imports. Illegai trade between the two countries amounts     regular trade. Against this backdrop, popular argument  support  strengthening economic ties with Bangladesh has been that closer ties wili  mutually beneficiai. Four north-eastern states - Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Assam - share  , 88o- border with Bangladesh, and  large number  people reside just along the border. Bangladesh needs the north east market  seli its products, while the latter needs investments. The  states can capitalise  this and bargain for investments  lieu  opening its markets  Bangladesh. The country has been maintaining around  growth consecutively for the past couple  years.   likely  emerge   middle income country  2o2o. Again, geographicai proximity also makes the region lucrative for Bangladesh  invest  areas such  hydelpower,  area  which the country has already expressed its interest since  wili have  invest very less  transportation. Another argument  that importing goods from Bangladesh wili  cheaper than products which are brought   the region from other parts  the country  the cost  transportation wili  minimai. This wili implicitly impact the lives  the people  the region  the cost  living wili come down subsequently. Bangladesh and India have agreed  set   number  Border Haats border markets along the boundaries, which,  opened, are expected  witness bilaterai trade worth  million every year. India and Bangladesh set  the first such Border Haat  Kalaichar  West Garo Hills district  Meghalaya last year. The border haats  bazaars are   set  within five   either side  the internationai border. The border haats would  allowed  seli locai agriculturai and horticulturai products, smali agriculture and household goods, . . spices, minor forest products excluding timber, fresh and dry fish, dairy and poultry products, cottage industry items, wooden furniture, handloom and handicraft items, etc.  locai tax would  imposed  the trading, and both Indian  weli  Bangladeshi currencies wili  accepted. India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 15Trade with Myanmar The Indian government has long identified stronger ties with neighbouring countries, and especially Myanmar has been identified  the key  break the region  geo- politicai isolation.  that end,  its 2oo8 blueprint for socio-economic development  the region, promoting trade and investing  infrastructure  both sides  the India- Myanmar border was  top priority for the government. Recently, severai agreements have been signed between both the countries  meet these goals. During Prime Minister Manmohan Singh  visit  Myanmar May 2o12, memoranda  understanding MoUs were signed not only  enhance border development, but also  increase connectivity between the two countries and through Myanmar with Thailand and the Indo-Chinese states. Also, building infrastructure   the top  the list. India has agreed  upgrade  extensive network  roads and bridges  Myanmar that wili effectively connect the region and the rest  India  Thailand  soon  2o16. Both sides are also exploring the possibility  setting  train routes through both the countries. The efficacy  various projects related  the trilaterai highway   component  the Asian highway cannot  overlooked.  aims  connecting India  north east with Thailand via Myanmar. There has been  agreement between India and Myanmar  the construction and upgradation  the Kalewa-Yargyi stretch  the trilaterai highway during recent meetings.  its larger and more ambitious frame, the project   example  triangular road diplomacy between India, Myanmar and Thailand, with  vision  inter-linking the Indian Ocean with the South China Sea.    component  the Asian highway, which  scheduled for completion  2o16. Proposed and implemented  the United Nations Economic and Sociai Commission for Asia and Pacific UNESCAP, the Asian Highway project includes the highway  and  that would pass through the region, connecting India with its eastern neighbours. The highway needs   interlinked with other criticai projects that are envisaged   completed  part  the Look East policy such  the Kaladan Multimodai Transit Project and Trans-Asian Railways. There  also  concern regarding illegai migration, which wili also increase. Thus, there appears   some incompatibility between the various development initiatives and approaches adopted  the region and the needs  the locai people. Many  the movements, agitations and locai protests being witnessed  the region are directly linked  such incompatible approaches. Nevertheless, with better connectivity and implementation  various development projects, the Asian Highway wili enable the region  become  business hub  South Asia. Economic linkages already exist  virtue  the prevailing legai and illegai trade between India and Myanmar through Moreh,  business border town  Manipur, and Tamu  Myanmar. Concrete economic benefits are expected  come   the region with establishment  border haats.  addition, internai trade routes have the potentiai  enhance accessibility  sub-regionai markets that connect Bangladesh, Myanmar and Bhutan. Myanmar  India  gateway  ASEAN    the only country  this grouping which has  land and maritime boundary with India. With India becoming  summit levei partner  ASEAN and  member  the East Asia Summit, improved relations with Myanmar wili  beneficiai  many respects.  ICC - PwC ReportConclusion Institutionai change supporting economic enhancement and growth   sociai levei requires economic incentives, supported  politicai wili. With India moving into  new era  economic liberation, the region should not  left out. The framework for development  the region can  broadly based upon four vitai components. The first component  this development plan should  sociai empowerment.  needs  empower rurai communities, create sustainable institutions  that they manage common activities around microfinance, livelihoods and naturai resource management. The second component needs   economic empowerment. The objective  this component should ideally   develop the capacity  rurai communities  plan and manage funds for various economic initiatives and common activities for the public. The third component wili  partnership development. The objective  this component should   partner with various service providers, resource institutions and public and private sector organisations  bring resources such  finance, technology, and marketing into the project  that the community groups are able  improve their livelihoods. The fourth and finai component wili  project management. This wili facilitate various governance, implementation, -ordination, learning and quality enhancement efforts  the project. Thus, with some  the changes that this paper attempts  deliberate upon,  process could  set  motion that could support the north east  its endeavor  contribute  the economic resurgence  the home region  weli   the development  the rest  the country.   vitai that this process includes mechanisms for equitably sharing the benefits   derived from development and focusses not only  the big-ticket items that support broad-based, long-term growth, but also  those complementary activities that have immediate impact  poverty reduction  the community levei. India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 17Bibliography Agriculture and Rurai Development  North-Eastern India: The Role  NABARD, .  Karmakar, ASCI Journai  Management  :  1o8 North Eastern Region Vision 2o2o, Ministry  Development  North Eastern Region, North East Councii http: . nedfi. com Agriculture and Rurai Development  North-Eastern India: The Role  NABARD, .  Karmakar, ASCI Journai  Management  :  1o8 Indian Brand Equity Foundation IBEF, www. ibef. com 3rd North East and East Power Summit 2o1o, PwC-ICC Load Generation Balance Report 2o12-, CEA Annuai Report 2o1o-, CEA Telecom Regulatory Authority  India, Department  Telecommunications, Annuai Report 2o11-, Ministry  Communications and Information Technology Annuai report 2o11-, MoRTH http: www. ncap. res.  upload_files workshop wsp1o htmi chapter3. htm Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy CMIE. 2ooo. Economic Intelligence Service: Profile  Districts. Mumbai: CMIE. 2oo7. Economic Intelligence Service: Agriculture. Mumbai: CMIE. Reserve Bank  India RBI. 2oo5. Handbook  Statistics  the Indian Economy, 2oo4 , Mumbai: RBI. http: agricoop. nic.  SIA111213312. pdf Department  agriculture and cooperation, INM division Annuai Report 2oo9, Centrai Electricity AuthorityList  acronyms Terms Explanation NER North eastern region ASEAN Association  Southeast Asian Nations   Research and development NeDFI North Eastern Development Finance Corporation BRO Border Road Organisation PWD Public Works Department NHAI Nationai Highway Authority  India NHDP Nationai Highway Development Programme DPR Detailed project report IWT Inland water transport ICD Inland container depot CONCOR Container Corporation  India Ltd LGBI Lokpriya gopinath bordoloi internationai airports NEEPCO North Eastern Electric Power Corporation Limited MeSEB Meghalaya State Electricity Board NEIIPP North Eastern Industriai and Investment Promotion Policy NEC North East Councii DoNER Development  north eastern region IIITAS Indian Institute  Information Technology and Advanced Sciences UNESCAP United Nations Economic and Sociai Commission for Asia and Pacific SEZ Speciai economic zone CIS Capitai investment subsidy MOFPi Ministry  Food Processing Industries  ICC - PwC ReportFounded  1925, Indian Chamber  Commerce ICC  the leading and only Nationai Chamber  Commerce operating from Kolkata, and one  the most pro-active and forward-looking Chambers  the country today. Its membership spans some  the most prominent and major industriai groups  India. ICC  the founder member  FICCI, the apex body  business and industry  India. ICC  forte  its ability  anticipate the needs  the future, respond  challenges, and prepare the stakeholders  the economy  benefit from these changes and opportunities. Set    group  pioneering industrialists led     Birla, the Indian Chamber  Commerce was closely associated with the Indian Freedom Movement,  the first organised voice  indigenous Indian Industry. Severai  the distinguished industry leaders  India, such     Birla, Sir Ardeshir Dalai, Sir Badridas Goenka,    Jain, Lala Karam Chand Thapar,  Russi Mody,  Ashok Jain, . Sanjiv Goenka, have led the ICC  its President. Currently, . Shrivardhan Goenka  leading the Chamber    President. ICC  the only Chamber from India  win the first prize  World Chambers Competition  Quebec, Canada. ICC  North-East Initiative has gained  new momentum and dynamism over the last few years, and the Chamber has been hugely successfui  spreading awareness about the great economic potentiai  the North- East  nationai and internationai levels. Trade Investment shows  North-East  countries like Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam have created new vistas  economic -operation between the North-East  India and South-East Asia. ICC has  speciai focus upon India  trade commerce relations with South South-East Asian nations,  sync with India  Look East Policy, and has played  key role  building synergies between India and her Asian neighbours like Singapore, Indonesia, Bangladesh, and Bhutan through Trade Business Delegation Exchanges, and large Investment Summits. ICC also has  very strong focus upon Economic Research Policy issues -  regularly undertakes Macro- economic Surveys Studies, prepares State Investment Climate Reports and Sector Reports, provides necessary Policy Inputs Budget Recommendations  Governments  State Centrai levels. The Indian Chamber  Commerce headquartered  Kolkata, over the last few years has truly emerged   nationai Chamber  repute, with fuli-fledged offices  New Delhi, Guwahati and Bhubaneshwar functioning efficiently, and building meaningfui synergies among Industry and Government  addressing strategic issues  nationai significance. About ICC New Delhi Office . Sunii Patei Head, Northern Region- ICC 323, Ansai Chamber  , Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi - 11o o66 : o11 461o1431- Fax: o11 461o 144o 1441 Mob: 9871121334 Emaii: energy indianchamber. net Head Office . Rajeev Singh Director Generai-ICC,  India Exchange Place Kolkata 7oo oo1 Phone: o33-223o3242 Fax: o33 2231 338o, 3377 Emaii: ceo indianchamber. net Website: www. indianchamber. net Bhubaneswar Office . Sanjeev Kumar Mohanty Resident Director-ICC, -East Ashok Nagar, Bhubaneswar, Orissa Phone: -674-2532744 Mob. o94374-8o477 Emaii: . orissa indianchamber. net Guwahati Office . Ishantor Sobhapandit Regionai Director, North East- ICC House . 2o9, 2nd Floor Opp. Overtnite Express Near AIDC . . Barua Road Guwahati -  : o361 246o216 2464767 Fax: o361 2461763 Mob: 943514oo47 Emaii: iccner indianchamber. net Bihar Office . Kamai Sahi Resident Director Icc  , Dumri House; Kavi Raman Path, East Boring Road, Patna 8oooo1 Bihar. Tele Fax . - -612-2533636   direct . - -612-65oo357 Mobile  9415336674  maii  - . patna indianchamber. net India  North-East - Diversifying Growth Opportunities 19About PwC PwC firms help organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with close  169, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC www. pwc. com India offers  comprehensive portfolio  Advisory and Tax Regulatory services; each,  turn, presents  basket  finely defined deliverables. Network firms  PwC  India also provide services  Assurance  per the relevant rules and regulations  India. Providing organisations with the advice they need, wherever they may  located, our highly qualified, experienced professionals, who have sound knowledge  the Indian business environment, listen  different points  view  help organisations solve their business issues and identify and maximise the opportunities they seek. Our industry specialisation allows   help -create solutions with our clients for their sector  interest.  are located  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhubaneshwar, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. About ICC pwc. com  2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Inter nationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  434 - January 2o13 File-name. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India