Title: pwc_chemical-industry-leadership-on-sustainability-aspire
Date Published: 2013-03-04 19:08:17+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_chemical-industry-leadership-on-sustainability-aspire.pdf
Word Count: 5311
Sentence Count: 489
Average Sentence Length: 16.83

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
sustainability: 134
chemicai: 114
companies: 97
industry: 87
chemicals: 61
globai: 46
sustainable: 35
business: 31
product: 31
india: 30
issues: 29
indian: 27
safety: 27
also: 27
pwc: 26
development: 26
management: 26
products: 26
http: 24
environmentai: 23

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

ASPIRE  agenda for the Indian chemicai industry  achieve leadership  sustainability www. pwc.  March 2o13 Background   Externai drivers   CEOs  sustainability   Industry response Pg9 ASPIRE:  agenda  deepen sustainability   Concluding remarks   Further resources    PwC1Chapter Background The recognition  the need for sustainable development  the 198os and 199os provided the framework for corporate sustainability    practiced today. What does sustainable development entaii? There are many definitions  sustainable development, but perhaps the most articulate  the 1987 one provided  the World Commission  Environment and Development  the Brundtland Commission report, Our Common Future: Development that meets the needs  the present without compromising the ability  future generations  meet their own needs. This concept requires   think  the world   interconnected system where decisions made have far- reaching repercussions, across geographies and across timelines. Meeting the need for power generation  one country may result  acid rain  another. The need for more and more crops  feed  growing world population  requiring greater use  pesticides, water and eating into forested lands.   world whose population  already bursting  the seams, and expected  reach nine billion  2o5o, sustainable development  not  chimera but  potent reality that has   accounted for. Population growth, unbridled resource exploitation, climate change, pollution and other factors have brought the world   development pathway that  not sustainable. With seemingly insatiable appetites for consumption,  are now definitively living beyond our means.   faii  alter the status quo, things are only going  worsen. Consumption and production patterns have  evolve and lead this transformation. Therefore, businesses have  decisively engage themselves with sustainable development they lie  the heart  the current resource use-production-consumption-disposai nexus. Without their active participation, neither the questions, nor the answers can  found. Given the size, influence and impact  business,   quite clear that they have  significant role  play  meeting the world  sustainable development goals. The triple-bottom line concept, with the themes  people, planet and profit was  milestone that led  clearer articulation  the ecologicai and sociai impacts  business and how they need  reinvent their business models  ensure that they remain profitable and contribute  sustainable development. This evolution  perhaps best illustrated  the chemicai industry  sustainability journey. Exposed  human-health and safety risks, companies embraced Responsible Care  the early 198os. Through the Globai Product Strategyii, the industry has committed  the safe management  chemicals  their entire life cycle. Over the decades, this agenda has evolved from prevention  product stewardship and now innovation  find answers  pressing world challenges. Availability  sustainable raw materials  likely   the next key lever  the journey. While the chemicai industry has traditionally remained  the forefront  the business sustainability agenda,  also implies that the industry  legacy makes stakeholders very conscious  the sustainability aspects associated with chemicai companies. Though society places immense value  the utility  chemicai products  day--day life,  has also become sensitive  the disturbing knowledge that chemicai Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  products can cost more than just the monetary price. Accidents, industriai  otherwise, and the unknown affects  severai chemicals, have led  intensifying public scrutiny. This underscores the need for the industry  maintain the tempo  its sustainability efforts.  must  said that the industry has always shown its intent  address the expectations and the burden  responsibility placed  .  this context, this report examines the sustainability practices  globai and Indian chemicai companies.  then provides takeaways  what Indian chemicai companies can ,  pick  speed  their own sustainability journeys.   based  desk reviews  publically available data, published sustainability disclosures and PwC  knowledge  the chemicai industry and sustainability issues. The report  organised  follows: Section one outlines the externai environment drivers  the chemicai industry globally and  India. Section two provides the perspectives  the CEOs  chemicai companies. Section three provides the industry response from globai and Indian chemicai companies. Section four provides recommendations for the industry  India  accelerate the mainstreaming  sustainability.  PwC2Chapter Externai drivers The externai drivers shaping the sustainability agenda for the chemicai industry are discussed  this section. These drivers are categorised into regulation driven and stakeholder driven. Regulations Globai developments Chemicals   industry has been the subject  intense regulation. The history  accidents, and the resultant damage  human health, flora and fauna and the environment was undoubtedly the trigger  the 198os. The Bhopai gas tragedy remains  stark reminder for the sector. There are two key areas concerning regulations one relates  the management  chemicals including disclosures and health impacts, and the second relates  prevention  chemicai accidents and chemicai safety. When  comes  the management  chemicals, even today, while progress  being made  develop better information  the effects  chemicals, this data remains limited  select chemicals. Severai developed countries have already  are  the process  enacting regulations that require more disclosure  chemicals, for example through data submission under the European Union  REACH programme, United States Toxic Substances Controi Act TSCA, Canada  Table : Frameworks and regulation  the chemicai industryiii Timelines Themes Sub-themes 197os Controlling chemicai pollution Air quality, water protection, waste water controls 197os Remediating contaminated sites and managing waste chemicals Site remediation, management  chemicai wastes, emergency response and spili management 197os Controlling dangerous chemicals Food and drug safety, pesticide management, workplace health and safety 198os Preventing chemicai pollution and accidentsCleaner production systems, chemicai accident prevention programmes, sustainable agriculture 198os Managing chemicai information Chemicai testing programmes, hazard communication, product declaration, nationai chemicai databases, globai classification and labelling 199os Managing chemicals  products Eco-labelling and eco-design programmes, product-levei safety norms  cosmetics, toys, etc, extended producer responsibility programmes, sustainable procurement programmes 2ooos Generating safer chemicals and encouraging resource efficiencyGreen and sustainable chemistry programmes, green engineering programmes, chemicals leasingChemicals Management Plan CMP, Globally Harmonized System  Classification and Labelling  Chemicals GHS and the Japanese Chemicai Substances Controi Law. Many developing countries too have implemented laws  manage chemicals, but the implementation  poorly resourced and often fragmented and ineffective, lagging weli behind the manufacture and usage  chemicals which  proliferating   rapid pace. Another area  regulation  centred  the prevention and management  chemicai accidents.  the United States, concern about chemicai accidents after the Bhopai gas tragedy led  the passage  the 1986 Emergency Planning and Community Right--Know Act.  Europe, the Seveso accident  1976 prompted the adoption  legislation. The resulting Seveso directive now applies  around , ooo industriai establishments where dangerous substances are used  stored  large quantities, mainly  the chemicals, petrochemicals, storage, and metai refining sectors. The usage  chemicai weapons has emerged  another area  regulation. The Chemicai Weapons Convention aims  eliminate  entire category  weapons  mass destruction  prohibiting the development, production, acquisition, stockpiling, retention, transfer  use  chemicai weapons  governments and state actors. The historicai evolution  regulation  the industry  summarised  table . Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Developments  India  India, the industry has been subject   host  regulations, particularly since the Bhopai gas tragedy. Besides overarching regulation  environment protection and waste management, specific regulation also applies  the chemicals sector such  clearance requirements for new projects  certain downstream chemicai industries, irrespective  the investment amount. With the launch  the Draft Nationai Chemicai Policy, multiple regulations may  consolidated drawing  the example  Reach. The Draft Nationai Chemicai Policy, 2o12 released  the Ministry  Chemicals and Fertilizers, Department  Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Government  India  2o12   landmark development for the industry. The policy accords high importance  aspects  research and development, safety, sustainability and green chemicals. Key aims  the Draft Nationai Chemicai Policy, 2o12 Facilitate investments. Creating demand potentiai Responsible Care certification Facilitate access  the latest technologies Establish  Chemicai Standard Development Organisation Set   nationai chemicai centre Incentives for green products Framework for chemicai disaster management Research and development, specifically low water intensive, environmentally compliant and safe green processesThe policy articulates the need for  consolidation  multiple regulations and policies into  single holistic framework. Sustainability  one  the mainstays  the policy.  encourages companies  seek Responsible Care certification.  envisages identification  focus areas and then supporting educationai and research institutes  develop low water intensive, environmentally compliant and safe green processes. Incentives for green products and processes are also discussed  the draft framework. Industry specific guidelines for chemicai disaster management are  the anvii, with coordination from the Nationai Disaster Management Authority. The Five Year Plan document 2o12-2o17 for the chemicai industry also stresses  sustainability particularly resource and environment sustainability. Areas include water, environmentai impact, raw materials, safety over lifecycle and energy use.   overali levei, the last  months have witnessed the strengthening  regulatory push  ESG issues  India. The launch  Nationai Voluntary Guidelines for Responsible Business, guidelines  Department  Public Enterprises  Sustainable Development;  Corporate Governance  CPSEs; and  Research and Development for CPSEs illustrates this. The SEBI  directive  August 2o12 requiring top 1oo companies  market capitalisation  report  business responsibility illustrates towards larger investor and capitai market interest  the sustainability performance  companies. Severai petrochemicai companies are included  this. While majority  chemicai companies  India are currently not subject  this requirement,  may  worthwhile  embrace reporting before  becomes  regulatory imposition. The proposed Companies Bili, 2o12 with section 135  corporate sociai responsibility CSR, wili also apply  companies  the industry. Enhanced corporate governance, envisaged  the bili, wili engender the need for companies  institute more rigorous internai governance procedures.  PwCStakeholder expectations Stakeholders across different dimensions  society are now more vocai than ever about their expectations from companies, requiring companies   more proactive  addressing ESG concerns. These include communities, NGOs, customers, capitai providers lenders, communities impacted  operations, vendors, employees, and governments. India  recent years has witnessed land acquisition concerns which have impacted mining and auto companies, community concerns  water withdrawai that have impacted beverage companies, and human rights issues  the supply chain that have impacted manufacturing companies. Investors Investors globally are demanding ESG standards for companies. For example, Ceres tracks shareholder resolutions filed  its investor network participants  sustainability-related issues. These resolutions are part  broader investor efforts encouraging companies  address the fuli range  ESG issues. The resolutions are filed  some  the nation  largest investors, many  whom are members  Ceres Investor Network  Climate Risk INCR.  India, investors appear   less concerned about sustainability beyond safety, emissions discharges and community engagement. NGOs and civii society actors Civii society organisations have often been  potent force pushing for greater regulation  the industry and specific sub-sectors. For example, SIN Substitute  Now! List   NGO driven project working towards elimination  toxics, developed  ChemSec. Greenpeace  ipoison and iwaste campaigns encourage prominent electronics manufacturers  eliminate toxic chemicals from their products. Another Greenpeace campaign attempts  examine hazardous chemicals used  the textile industry. Customers Customers, particularly large multinationai enterprises are also asking supply chain partners  examine sustainability performance. The chemicai industry   supplier  food and beverage, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, electronics, automotives, industriai products, infrastructure, etc. Large buyers and customers are implementing performance standards for their value chains. Unilever has collaborated with academia  explore sustainable chemicals for personai and household products.  externai expert team assesses the risk  toxic effects occurring  the environment   result  the use and disposai  ingredients used  Unilever  home and personai care products. The zero discharge pledge  2o2o has been made jointly  companies including Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Adidas, Nike and Puma. The companies have committed  phase out the use  hazardous chemicals  their supply chains. Beverage companies, traditionai large consumers  PET resins are now initiating the usage  bio-PET  packaging. These developments are expected  have knock-  effects  the chemicai industry. Communities Awareness has spurned communities  severai pockets  the world  hold companies accountable for their actions.  India, where the country  stili early   its development trajectory, community consent  even more sensitive. Since the 199os, the country has witnessed community coming together  protest projects that threatened their land, livelihood  health. Often, the government has had  intervene and subsequent regulatory response has included the bili  displacement and rehabilitation that  expected   tabled  the Parliament soon.   result, community engagement  both the project and operations stages  becoming  inescapable necessity for operations which are close  the homes and livelihoods  people.   increasingly apparent that communities wili also provide the licence  operate. Employees  2o12 studyiv based  surveys  746 employees from  different industries  three developed countries, the ,  and Germany, and  three emerging market countries, China, India and Brazii has suggested that employees are willing  make less money  order  work for sustainable companies. More than  percent  employees  the ,  and Germany have taken  pay cut  work for  sustainable company. Employees are placing greater importance  behaviours related  eliminating negative effects  business practices, including ensuring employee safety, reducing pollution and eliminating child labour. Industry peers The Globai Chemicai Industry Sustainability Summit 2o12 held  Brussels also grappled with questions pertaining  sustainability  the industry. Consumers were not willing  pay  premium for greener products, and for want   sustainable business modei, there  limited transition  greener products.  the same time, larger chemicai- consuming sectors have shown commitment  move  zero zero waste, zero emission  zero hazardous chemicals. Expectations are now being made  the chemicai industry whether  would move  zero toxicity soon.  PwC3Chapter CEOs  sustainability PwC conducts  annuai globai CEO survey, which attempts  gain perception  what the leaders  the world  largest enterprises are currently dealing with. The 16th Annuai CEO Survey 2o13 has the theme  Dealing with Disruption, Adapting  Survive and Thrive covering , 33o CEOs across  countries . The survey suggests  prevailing mood  restrained optimism.   easy  understand why they are  cautious. Far- reaching changes are happening and are happening faster than before. Between 197o and 2o11, the number  manmade disasters nearly tripled, while the number  naturai disasters surged sevenfold.  short, improbable risks aren   improbable now; they are becoming the norm   more uncertain world, and CEOs everywhere are feeling the heat. From  sustainability perspective, building trustworthy relationships through dialogue with stakeholders was  important finding. The majority  CEOs are strengthening their engagement with the stakeholders they see  influentiai sociai media  becoming  increasingly important tooi. With sociai media giving  voice  diverse groups  stakeholders, CEOs are recognising the need  secure  stronger sociai mandate  rebuilding public trust. From promoting  ethicai culture  increasing workforce diversity and reducing environmentai impacts, they are pursuing  wide array  initiatives  simultaneously support their growth strategies, establish the right mandate and boost resilience. Considering the specific survey findings from the chemicals industry, chemicals CEOs have the strongest focus  innovation  any industry  surveyed. Three- fifths  them said   and innovation  one  their top three investment priorities over the next  months almost double the overali average, and significantly more than other innovation-driven industries like pharmaceuticals and life sciences and technology. More than three-quarters  them also say that they wili make changes  increase   and innovation capacity.  lot  what  driving innovation  chemicals companies  linked  customer needs. Commitments from large powerfui buyers  chemicai products could instigate  significant shift  prevailing market dynamics and provide  breeding ground for newer, sustainable, human-friendly chemicai compositions. Innovation  one way that chemicals companies stay ahead  the competition. Many chemicals CEOs are keeping  close watch  what industry peers are doing, with  saying that industry competitors and peers have  significant influence  business strategy again, far more than the overali average  . Some  the industry  most powerfui innovations are helping other industries lower their carbon footprint. But chemicals production itself  also energy intensive, uses primarily fossii fuels   raw materiai, and requires other naturai resources like water too. Many chemicals executives are keenly aware  the need  reduce the industry  overali environmentai footprint. Two-thirds plan  increase their focus  the coming  months. And looking forward over the next three years,  also say that they wili make bigger investments  addressing the risks  climate change and protecting biodiversity. Nearly half  the CEOs plan  put more effort into reducing their organisation  environmentai footprint  the coming year. Meanwhile,  plan  focus more heavily  non-financiai reporting. Many CEOs are also aiming, more broadly,  improve nationai outcomes. Over the next three years,  plan  invest more  creating  skilled workforce and   maintaining the health  the workforce. Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  4Chapter Industry response Globai chemicai companies  the collective world vision for  sustainable 21st century    realised, the chemicai industry would have  play  key role  this transition. Chemicals are  necessity yet, there are known and unknown low  high impacts  terms  human health and environmentai degradation associated with their production, use, and disposai. Governments, civii society actors and the generai public are becoming increasingly vocai reiterating that both the environment and human health are  risk owing  the prevalent management  chemicals and associated waste streams. The concerns become even more pronounced for developing countries like India where there  rapid growth  both the quantity and range  new and existing chemicals. Globally, chemicai companies are showcasing their sustainability intent.  desk review  the disclosures  leading chemicai companies points  sustainability risks and opportunities being mainstreamed  business operations. Companies included  the universe  this review include DSM . . Netherlands, Dow Chemicai . United States, Bayer  Germany, BASF  Germany, Solvay Chemicals Belgium, DuPont United States and Akzo Nobei . . Netherlands. Key findings from the analysis are summarised below. Reporting and disclosures Among the globai companies that  studied, ali had published some disclosures and five chemicai companies Akzo Nobei, BASF, Dow Chemicai, Bayer and DSM have externai assurance  verification over their sustainability reporting, with four  the five company reports receiving assurance  verification. Companies that seek  demonstrate greater transparency,  attain leadership positioning, use  larger number  internationai frameworks  report and communicate. These include responses  the Carbon Disclosure Project, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good Index,  Globai Compact and Globai Reporting Initiative guidelines. Materiai issues  materiai issue  commonly understood  accounting parlance   factor that can have  significant financiai impact  the company. Extrapolated  sustainability, the concept underscores issues that may have significant environmentai, sociai,  even financiai impacts. This  based  both what the company perceives   materiai,  weli  its stakeholders. Core thematic materiai issues for the industry revolve around  preponderance  environment and safety parameters. Within this overarching premise, specific issues pertain  resource challenges such  water, energy, raw materials; and extend  addressing environmentai challenges  climate change, air emissions and waste management. Safety encompasses occupationai safety, product safety from manufacture,  use and disposai. This also comprises the wider dimensions  accident prevention, ecosystem protection, spili management and disaster response. Product stewardship and innovation   newer theme observed amongst severai companies. The nomenclature varies though being referred   sustainable chemistry,  PwC green chemistry, innovation, etc. However, the outcomes envisioned are similar  use chemistry   tooi  find breakthroughs  pressing world challenges such  food, energy, healthcare and environmentai conservation. This   way  interventions  agri-sciences, pharma-sciences, better energy-performing chemicals, high-performing environmentai products, etc.  the societai axis, community engagement and employee weli-being are dominant themes. Helping externai stakeholders customers, governments, suppliers and industry use chemicals effectively and safely features prominently. Engaging communities and employees  part  broader corporate citizenship manifestos across the industry. Strategic approach  sustainability Sustainability  recognised  both   business driver and  business outcome and not viewed  isolation. Systematic risk and opportunity identification are  ongoing exercise. For example, the Dow Chemicals mission statement  Strive  eliminate ali injuries, prevent adverse environmentai and health impacts, reduce waste and emissions, and promote resource conservation  every stage  the life cycle  our products. Bayer   mission  Science for  better life.  addition  the corporate sustainability agenda, product levei sustainability constructs are being formulated. Sustainability messaging  evolving simultaneously  operationai footprints, and product footprints. Action points are being developed around procurement  renewable raw materials, and higher environmentai performance  products. Mostly, goals have been identified along seven key buckets  air emissions, energy, GHG emissions, health and safety, water, waste spills and innovation. Most  the companies have goals spanning the entire range  themes. Air emissions reduction goals primarily centre around VOC, with targets ranging  high  . Energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions goals are generally  the form  intensity reduction commitments and targets ranging between  and . Health and safety goals cover  diversity  metrics beyond the standard lost time recordable injury rates, with commitments ranging from process safety incidents  driver vehicle accidents  occupationai illnesses. Innovation goals typically focus  increasing sales from existing products that have become more sustainable  from new products using sustainability  the innovator based  green chemistry. This  particularly relevant  the current context. Large buyers  chemicals are now consciously aiming  incorporate product sustainability  their value chain, and the ripple effects  the companies wili undoubtedly have repercussions  the current state  play. For example, Akzo Nobei mentions that one  its paint applications Dulux Weathershield Sun Reflect reduces temperature  outer walls, thus reducing the need for air-conditioning. Given that the market size  green chemistry  expected  reach 1oo billion USD  2o2o, the opportunity  capitalise through product stewardship  already  the table. Severai companies have  strategy focussed  developing green products. Dow Chemicals has  KPI  increasing the percentage  sales  for products that are highly advantaged  sustainable chemistry. Companies are also developing tools that can quantify the sustainable attributes  products. For example, BASF has developed  eco-efficiency analysis tooi that compares sustainability  products and processes.  evaluates raw materials consumption, energy consumption, land use, air and water emissions and solid waste, toxicity potentiai, and risk potentiai from misuse.  similar lines,  has also developed  socio-eco efficiency analysis methodology called Seebalance and methodology for sustainability metrics  agriculture called Agbalance. Stakeholder engagement Companies are seen   reporting about having systematic stakeholder engagement processes instituted. Intelligently identifying stakeholders who can drive, block  shape the discourse around sustainability can prove   the decisive factor that can render engagement exercises meaningfui  ineffective. Another factor  the fashion  which the actuai dialogue  conducted whether independent  the company, and   neutrai environment. The actuai methodology employed such  one--one meetings, workshops  emaii telephonic discussions also exert  certain degree  influence  the effectiveness  the process. The benefits  structured engagement are manifold.  can deepen the company  insights into societai and customer trends, drivers and needs.  can help  building consensus for advocacy goals and topics. Generating trust and endorsement for the company can   upshot. Finally, and perhaps most significantly, stakeholder engagement informs materiality, and can   prescient precursor  risks and opportunities not yet strategically assimilated. For example, BASF has engaged with over 3oo different stakeholders from around the world, and used their inputs  identify and prioritise over  materiai sustainability issues. Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Chemicai companies are seen   speaking with  diverse set  stakeholders including customers, suppliers, employees, communities, government and regulators, universities and academia, among others. However, what stands out  that companies are members  alliance partners  industry forums and globai protocols that focus  sustainability. These include World Business Councii for Sustainable Development, World Resources Institute,  Globai Compact, Alliance  Save Energy, Sustainable Packaging Coalition, Globai Environment Management Initiative,  World Food Programme, IUCN  Leaders for Nature, Product Carbon Footprint Project,  CEO Water Mandate, among severai others. Such membership  likely    fertile ground for industry insights, and also offer platforms for advocacy  industry-specific concerns. Sustainability governance Top-management and board-levei commitment  sustainability  seen across the universe. Management  sustainability   responsibility  specially formulated sustainability committees councils   the existing EHS committee also responding  voluntary responsible care guidelines. These committees report either  the CEO  the board   specific board nominee. BASF, for example, talks  the councii role  developing strategy, while the steering committees under  manage globai implementation, project teams  employees draw  concrete measures, and the sustainability centre coordinates internai projects and stakeholder dialogue. Some  the companies have established advisory panels comprising representatives from externai opinion leaders and community members. These Community Advisory Panels act  internai watchdogs  ensure sustainability levers are incorporated  ongoing and future projects. They are also  conduit  channei community feedback and concerns  the board and top management.   nutsheli, globai chemicai companies generally have more available sustainability information, more detailed sustainability reports, and greater likelihood  establish sustainability goals. This  likely due  other industry drivers, such  the responsible care standard and  greater number  EHS regulations. Additionally, the leading chemicai companies are typically based  the United States and Europe, where EHS and sustainability regulations and reporting practices have been long established  part  business culture. Many companies set goals off  baseline year and set  target   achieved  the short  medium term.   typicai for the baseline year   the fixture  establishing ali the various types  goals against  and measuring ali the progress against this baseline year, used   snapshot for year--year comparison. Setting goals   intensity basis seems   the common metric,  many companies seek  achieve goals  the themes  reduction while these organisations are stili striving  achieve increases  profitability, sales, market share, etc. Energy and greenhouse gas intensity goals are very prevalent and have  blend  both operationai and market drivers,  the other five categories  goals are typically operationai focused, based  desired performance improvements against regulatory industry drivers. for air, health and safety, water, and waste spills goals,  market-focused, based   desire  achieve maintain industry leadership for innovation goals. The commitment  zero toxicity  now the centre  attention.  PwCIndian chemicai companies India  chemicai industry represents only around   the globai chemicals. Indian companies, due  their limited contribution  the globai industry, have escaped the unrelenting scrutiny that their larger globai counterparts have been subjected  since the 198os. However, emerging trends  the globai chemicai industry reveai that   witnessing  graduai eastward shift towards Asia. India, undoubtedly, wili account for  substantiai share  the new market.  this upcoming scenario, Indian companies would  compelled  act   range  issues, previously neglected  hovering  the fringes  boardroom agendas. These issues could range from better corporate governance, intellectuai property protection, aggressive  , -skilling locai talent and sustainable raw materials, among others.  focus  sustainability would certainly  one  the many expectations from Indian companies. Chemicai companies  India have demonstrated commitment  sustainability and initiated  range  sustainability programmes, drawing  best practices adopted  globai peers. However, unlike industries such  cement, where sustainability   agenda has evolved   broad-based manner among industry players, the chemicai companies  India are  yet,  varying stages  the sustainability journey. The efforts, while laudable, are apparently sporadic and spontaneous lacking the rigour  globai companies pre- meditation  materiai risks and opportunities. Very few companies have mainstreamed sustainability  core business and operations, whereas  few are devoting their energies  focussing  individuai sustainability issues such  safety, product stewardship and resource efficiency, among others.  desk review  sustainability information  the public domain  Indian chemicai companies points   few key trends. The key observations are  follows: Reporting and disclosures  desk review  publicly available sustainability disclosures indicate that very few Indian chemicai companies have cohesive and holistic sustainability reports based  internationally recognised frameworks.  majority  the companies have  section  their websites primarily reporting  community and environmentai initiatives.  such cases, the absence  defined objectives   umbrella sustainability ambition renders  difficult  truly assess the sustainability performance and progress over time.  the same time, the domestic arms  internationai chemicai companies are seen   reporting  alignment with their parent companies protocols for disclosures. Materiai issues There are  few key themes that begin  emerge based  the analysis  sustainability performance  the Indian chemicai companies.  severai cases, improvements  environmentai performance and resource efficiency are put  the centre  corporate sustainability  corporate citizenship programmes. Safety, viewed  terms  product safety, transport safety and safety  exposed employees  another common theme.  few companies are also engaging suppliers  sensitise the latter  sustainability issues and concerns. Majority  the companies have undertaken programmes focusing  community and socials aspects. These include efforts  improve locai infrastructure, economic and sociai conditions, health camps, and raising awareness about health and disease-prevention. Systematic approach  stakeholder engagement  identifying materiai issues  not adapted across the industry. Only few companies have built strategies around materiai issues linked  business. Materiai issues are largely restricted  resource and community, and  holistic assessment  issues  the light  current socio-economic context and business environment  called for. Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Strategic approach  sustainability Currently, sustainability efforts are largely confined  that  being  good corporate citizen - through resource management and community engagement. Some companies though have been able  articulate their sustainability ambitions beyond this. For example, availability  skilled talent, transportation safety  products,  chemicals   enabler  find solutions for problems  hunger  health are some issues that have been recognised   few companies. Some companies have also actively taken  targets under sustainability, and communicate their progress through sustainability reports and communications. Availability  raw materials and feedstocks  the light  fossii fuei availability, and concerns about their impact  climate change  another area. Sustainability  stili not viewed  beyond compliance  beyond business  usuai. The figure below  Sustainability evolution  the globai chemicai sector offers  interesting juxtaposition  where Indian chemicai companies are vis--vis their peers. Stakeholder engagement Systematic approach  stakeholder engagement  not broad-based among the players.   confined  specific stakeholder groups and  need-based, and reactive. Even the results  these interactions are not available publically  its linkages shown with materiality  strategy.  few Indian companies have become signatories  protocols and frameworks including Responsible Care, Globai Compact and others. Reporting guidelines such  the Globai Reporting Initiative provide broad basis for companies  monitor and measure performance, and introspect  gaps, anticipated risks and mitigants. With the increased scrutiny  the industry and strengthening  regulations  the industry globally, the choice  adopt framework and incorporate associated covenants  expected   longer remain  choice, but become  hygiene factor. Sustainability governance Tangible governance structures and their disclosures are not seen. Policy levei interface with sustainability  also limited  scope and application. While companies are seen  have EHS and CSR representatives, their interaction among themselves and with the top management for the setting  agendas  not prevalent. Committees and task- forces are formed for specific environmentai  community projects, which needs   integrated into  company-wide framework  sustainability. Value CreationValue Erosion 198osRisk managementManaging for valueStrategic advantage 199os 2ooos 2o1osMitigating the environmentai impact  operations and chemicai accidents; improvement  workplace and product safety Product stewardship grows out  the need for greater transparency  the composition  chemicals and impacts Product stewardship grows out  the need for greater transparency  the composition  chemicals and impactsSustainable product sourcing, bio-sourcing, corporate governance, skilled workforce, supply chain and emissions management Indian chemicai sector  hereSustainability evolution  the globai chemicai sector  PwC5Chapter ASPIRE:  agenda  deepen sustainability The sustainability premise  globai chemicai counterparts was driven   host  externai drivers both regulatory and the expectations  various stakeholders. India today   the threshold   similar paradigm shift. Auto companies have had  relocate operations due  community demands. Beverage companies have had  demonstrate their genuine efforts  replenishing water  counter community distrust. Investors have withdrawn from mining companies  account  sustainability risks. The government has been active setting the stage for  range  voluntary and mandatory measures aimed  better corporate governance, and greater focus  the triple bottom line. Civii society organisations are likely  emerge  vociferous champions  causes, which may   ends with current business practices. Having said that, these developments are not bereft  opportunities for the Indian chemicai industry. Energy efficiency and renewable trading schemes being implemented  India provide  valuable starting point for galvanising efforts. Chlor alkali sector  covered under the Perform-Achieve-Trade scheme  energy efficiency. Larger B2B customers are likely  become more vocai about their demands for incorporating sustainability considerations   ecologicai, environmentai  sociai. This   definite incentive for sustainable innovation. The stage  therefore ripe for chemicai companies  chart their own pathway  sustainable development and      manner  its choice. Before regulations  externai pressures necessitate imminent interventions,  voluntary, thought-out, industry-wide commitment can prove   decisive. Internationally, chemicai companies have internalised the idea that responsible business   longer  good  have  nice  have concept but   matter  good business practice. The proliferation  frameworks and protocols  this effect further testifies  the urgency.  what should the Indian chemicai industry   proactively, and  its own terms, become globally relevant  the sustainability front? ASPIRE provides such  agenda.  Adapt and adopt sustainability frameworks  Engage Stakeholders  Prioritize materiai issues  Integrate sustainability with core business  REport, disclose, communicate Adapt and adopt frameworks Taking  cue from the practices  globai chemicai majors, Indian chemicai companies could consider adapting and adopting internationally accepted sustainability frameworks and protocols  the Indian context. These frameworks offer industry specific guidance and principles,  weli   consolidated repository  best practices.   platform for listening  internationai peers, the protocols provide  channei for discussion and learning. Some  the frameworks have covenants for complying with certain principles, which would enable  company  establish -house processes and policies around compliance  these principles.  good starting point could  the alignment  the chemicai industry  globai Responsible Care programme with the Nationai Voluntary Guidelines NVGs notified  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs. The industry  whole could initiate  industry-specific version  the NVGs, that offers more priority  particular industry issues. This may  led  the Indian Chemicai Councii  partnership with the Indian Institute  Corporate Affairs, the think-tank set   the Ministry  Corporate Affairs. These frameworks can provide the guidelines that can enable companies  engage Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  and deepen their sustainability commitments. The box below page demonstrates the overlap between the NVGs and Responsible Care. Areas  overlap: Responsible care and NVGs Resposible care Continuously improve the EHS performance  technologies, processes and products. Resources efficiency and minimisation  waste. Report  performance, achievements and shortcomings. Listen, engage and work with stakeholders. Cooperate with governments  the development and implementation  regulations and standards. Responsible management  chemicals along the product chain. NVGs Ethics, transparency, and accountability. . . . .  Product life cycle sustainability. . . . ,  Employees wellbeing Stakeholder engagement. . . . .  Human rights Environment. . . . . ,  Policy advocacy. . . . .  Inclusive growth Customer valueEngage stakeholders Stakeholder engagement which  covered  Principle   the NVGs  the most criticai activity that can throw  enormous insights  what the externai world  expecting  you and your industry. Identify who are your most important stakeholders, and talk  them beyond routine transactionai matters. Record these discussions develop action points and track them.  necessary, engage third parties  undertake the consults,  give the stakeholders complete comfort   neutrai non-threatening environment.  may throw  insights, unanticipated risks  untapped opportunities that internai company housekeeping might have missed.  would also inform your materiality analysis. The box below captures BASF  approach  stakeholder engagement. Establishing  company task force composed  -house professionals and externai academic and NGO expertise  review performance evidence  identify patterns and explore possible solutions might  one way  ensure accountability and transparency  achievements and performance. Inviting community representatives and opinion leaders  join the taskforce can also add immense benefits  project approvai phase. Such community advisory panels have been instituted  severai companies such  BASF.  PwCPrioritise materiai issues  materiality analysis   evaluation  sustainability issues affecting  expected  affect the company and its stakeholders. This informs overali company strategy and sustainability disclosures. Therefore, figuring out what  materiai  you and your stakeholders should ideally  the starting point   weli-rooted, coherent sustainability strategy. Think  what your peers are doing, and what could  anticipated regulation based  globai and domestic developments. Use this literature  initiate internai dialogue, brainstorm, and together with the stakeholder feedback  develop your own materiality framework. While developing the framework, make sure  think  emerging issues beyond business  usuai, which may not currently occupy mainstream attention  India, but could prove   decisive. These could include product stewardship for the greater good, such  solving globai challenges  hunger, malnutrition and disease. Another issue could  supply chain and how suppliers are managing their own sociai  environmentai sustainability.  how  chemicai company can ensure safer transportation  its materials   country like India, where reliable transportation options are few. Another issue that  expected  emerge for Indian companies  procurement  adequate and reliable quality feedstock. Integrate sustainability Sustainability requires that companies, while striving for financiai success, accept responsibility for their impact  and relationships with  diverse group  stakeholders and their expectations.  thereby enables the risk paradigm   viewed more holistically than the traditionai enterprise risk management ERM framework which  weli entrenched  leading chemicals companies. Beyond economic, strategic and operationai factors,  allows sociai and environmentai considerations   factored   emerging risks.  the same time,  provides forethought  opportunities that may  overlooked  other analyticai and systems-driven approaches. Sustainability combined with traditionai risk identification and analysis tools provides decision makers the information that they need  make better, more informed decisions  myriad risks, including environmentai, sociai, economic, operationai and strategic issues. This provides the business case  integrate sustainability issues with core business processes  product development, packaging, innovation and research and development. Sustainability  not  stand-alone exercise unto itself but  umbrella strategic agenda that cannot  realised  isolation   company  business and products. Designating functionai heads  issue owners  agenda owners with specifically delineated KPIs can mainstream sustainability thinking throughout. For example, large globai chemicai companies look  their businesses for fructifying their sustainability objectives. Green chemistry, chemistry innovation, science for  better life ali point  utilising the core chemicai business for environment and society positive solutions. Once materiai issues have been identified, issue wise ambition, goals, objectives and metrics may  developed. Individuai departments could  assigned specific KPIs, and  scorecard aggregated  the company levei. Tracked   continuous basis, this would enable companies  improve baseline sustainability performance, and assess reasons for deviation from set targets. The box below captures  sample  Bayer  targets and KPIs  sustainability. Bayer  targets and KPIs  supply chain performance include the following: Inform ali suppliers with purchase-order-relevant volumes about the Bayer Supplier Code  Conduct Assess the sustainability performance  suppliers that represent   the totai procurement volume and   the procurement volume from risk areas Annually audit the sustainability performance   least   the suppliers from risk areas   least  suppliers Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Some  this  already being mandated through NVG , proposed Companies Bili and the SEBI circular. Hence,  stands  reason that the chemicai industry may decide  embrace this  its entirety, and  the trendsetters for other industries. Case study: DuPont development  sustainability strategy Initiai state Corporate centre led. Sustainable growth successes were infrequent and serendipitous. Sustainable growth,  product opportunities from sustainability, was originally  corporate centre function. DuPont then focused  building business unit capacity  analyse sustainability opportunities. Evolved state Results driven  accountability  business unit levei. Sustainable growth metrics sustainable value added   product created  focai point and initiai alignment. Efforts intensified after inclusion  sustainability  annuai business unit evaluations. Business units customised metrics  their particular segments and strategies.  PwC6Chapter Concluding remarks This report presents  overview  sustainability performance and initiatives   range  chemicai companies that recognise the need  rise  the current challenges and opportunities.  explores the scope for the Indian chemicai industry  mainstream sustainability and capitalise  new opportunities and markets. But, just  importantly,  considers the need for enhanced engagement between Indian companies and their globai peers, where knowledge transfer and joint and collaborative working relationships could help move the industry towards the common goai  sustainable development. The industry  legacy has necessitated regulatory intervention throughout the last three  four decades.  has always been confronted  stakeholders  change its reactive approach  sustainability. The industry itself has always shown willingness  own  and course correct. But the trust deficit  likely  continue. The abatement  this deficit, and subsequently building trustworthy relationships  something that the industry would have  continue  work hard . Market disruptions would undeniably fuei this the industry  largest customers are looking for help  changing the extant paradigms  moving  greener chemicals. The Indian chemicai industry has  long journey ahead  itself. Its economic resurgence  only just starting. Decoupling this growth from  larger environmentai footprint consciously can embed sustainability structures, and contribute   resilient future. Not least among these  the process  innovating and showcasing technology and solutions.  addition, individuai sub-sectors can contribute based  their specialist knowledge  products. The chemicai industry  downstream  severai other sectors  India that are also  the cusp  growth building infrastructure, pharmaceuticals and healthcare delivery, agriculture sciences  name  few. The chemicai industry must recognise that   the one  the pivotai actors that can deliver sustainable development outcomes for these upstream industries solutions  hunger through crop science,  healthcare  building materials solutions for  climate positive infrastructure. The government  already trying  get companies  start thinking  ESG issues, governance and corporate citizenship through various measures voluntary and mandatory.   perhaps now time that the industry also enhances its commitment  act  this agenda and act quickly. Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  7Chapter Further resources Draft Nationai Chemicai Policy, 2o12 http: chemicals. nic.  DNCP_2o12. pdf Indian chemicai industry XIIth five year plan 2o12 -2o17 http: planningcommission. nic.  aboutus committee wrkgrp12 wg_chemo2o3. pdf Globai Chemicals Outlook Synthesis Report, UNEP 2o12 http: www. unep. org pdf GCO_Synthesis 2oReport_ CBDTIE_UNEP_September5_2o12. pdf PwC  16th Globai Annuai CEO Survey 2o13 http: www. pwc. com   ceo-survey index. jhtmi Sustainability information for AkzoNobei . . www. akzonobei. com sustainability Sustainability information for BASF  http: www. basf. com group sustainability_en index Sustainability information for Bayer  http: www. bayer. com  sustainable-development-reports. aspx Sustainability information for Dow Chemicals http: www. dow. com sustainability Sustainability information for DSM . . http: www. dsm. com en_US cworld public sustainability pages home. jsp Sustainability information for DuPont http: www2. dupont. com chemicals -  index. htmi Sustainability information for Solvay group http: www. solvay. com  Literature SD_2oo8_2o12_Report_EN. pdf Sustainability information for Unilever http: www. unilever. com sustainable-living uslp Indian Chemicai Industry,  Sector Study, Occasionai Paper . 117  Export-Import Bank  India 2oo7 http: smallb.  sites default files knowledge_base reports IndianChemicalIndustry. pdf Handbook  Indian Chemicai Industry 2o1o prepared  FICCI, Tata Strategic Management Group and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants http: www. rolandberger. com media pdf Roland_Berger_ India_Chem_2o1o11o9. pdf REACH http: . europa.  enterprise sectors chemicals reach index_en. htm CERES Investor Network  Climate Risk http: www. ceres. org incr engagement industry-dialogues Chemicai Weapons Convention http: www. opcw. org chemicai-weapons-convention Globai Product Strategy  Internationai Councii  Chemicai Associations ICCA http: www. icca-chem. org Home ICCA-initiatives Globai-product-strategy Globally Harmonized System  Classification and Labelling  Chemicals GHS http: www. unece. org trans danger publi ghs ghs_welcome_e. htmi http: chemicalroundtables. com wordpress2? tag globai-chemicai-industry-sustainability-summit https: cen. acs. org articles  i39 Chemicai-Makers-Grapple-Sustainability. htmi http: www. guardian. .  sustainable-business sustainability-with-john-elkington chemicai-industry-embrace- sustainability-environment  PwCMethods and tools developed for chemicai hazard assessment, identification  preferred chemicals and products and chemicai product prioritisation Sourced and adapted and from Globai Chemicals Outlook Synthesis Report, UNEP 2o12 Restricted substance lists RSLs  many corporations Life Cycle Assessment formalised  ISO 14o4o Sustainability Product Assessment Tooi  Boots  Responsible Care Globai Product Stewardship  Canadian Chemicai Producers Association Internationai Councii  Chemicai Associations ICCA  Globai initiative  drive continuous improvement  the chemicai industry  the areas  health, safety and the environment Eco-Efficiency Analysis Tooi  BASF BASTA  Swedish building companies, NCC, Skanska,  and Peab,  association with the Swedish Construction Federation Eco-Check  Bayer Technology Services Environmentai Product Declaration  numerous corporations Apparei Index  Sustainable Apparei Coalition Trade Union Priority List  European Trade Union Confederation SIN List  ChemSec Green Screen  Clean Production Action P2OASys  Massachusetts Toxics Use ReductionInstitute Ecolabels and Certifications  many organizations Pharos  Healthy Building Network Skin Deep cosmetics database  Environmentai Working Group CleanGredients  GreenBlue Endnote  Responsible Care  the chemicai industry  globai initiative that drives improvement  environmentai, health and safety performance and  being implemented  manufacturing operations across  countries.  The Globai Product Strategy advocates  combination  regulations and voluntary programmes  harmonize the globai levei  product safety assessment. Its flagship feature  the Chemicals Portai, which offers the generai public and ICCA members direct and free access  product stewardship information. More details about the Globai Product Strategy are available  http: www. icca-chem. org Home ICCA-initiatives Globai-product-strategy iii Information from Globai Chemicals Outlook: Towards Sound Chemicals Management. Chapter III: Instruments and Approaches for the Sound Management  Chemicals. Ken Geiser and Sally Edwards, UNEP. 2o12  Adapted from research  Bain and  available  http: www. bain. com about press press-releases employee- sustainability-study-press-release. aspx  PwC  16th Globai Annuai CEO Survey 2o13 available  http: www. pwc. com   ceo-survey index. jhtmi Chemicai industry leadership  sustainability: ASPIRE  Notes  PwCNotes PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc For more information about PwC  services for the chemicai industry, please contact:  Jayaraman Prashant Vikram Singh Shankar Venkateswaran Sathish  http: www. pwc.  en_IN  services sustainability-services. jhtmlAbout PwC This report has been produced  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited The recommendations  this report have been developed  PwC, drawing  the desk review  publically available data and PwC internai analysis, insights and knowledge. The companies which have been included  the report include  blend  chemicai companies  India and across the globe. The range  globai companies studied had  intentionai bias towards companies that are likely  have better sustainability recognition, disclosures and performance. For India, publically available information   chemicai companies were considered, which excluded MNCs  foreign owned companies. The objective   present  broad industry perspective, and not reflect the views  any particular organisation. This study has benefited from publically available data  severai internationai and Indian chemicai companies. However, the views and recommendations expressed within   not necessarily represent the policies  views  these organisations. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  XXX - March 2o13 Chemicai Industry Leadership  Sustainability: ASPIRE. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India