Title: pwc_corporate-attributes-and-practices-towards-arbitration-in-india
Date Published: 2013-05-15 09:00:21+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_corporate-attributes-and-practices-towards-arbitration-in-india.pdf
Word Count: 2902
Sentence Count: 218
Average Sentence Length: 20.14

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
arbitration: 145
companies: 58
india: 54
dispute: 40
resolution: 32
seat: 31
pwc: 26
disputes: 26
expert: 25
experience: 24
services: 23
legai: 21
company: 20
proceedings: 19
forensic: 19
arbitrators: 18
preferred: 17
practices: 16
litigation: 16
court: 16

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  Corporate Attitudes Practices towards Arbitration  India  PwC Corporate attitudes and practices 3The growth  domestic and internationai trade and commerce has spurred competition, provided new opportunities and imputed risks. Commerciai arbitration  India  witnessing  steady transition and resolution  domestic and cross border disputes  becoming more sophisticated. The survey shows that parties are increasingly choosing  resolve disputes away from the courts through arbitration. This survey  our pioneer effort  exploring the levei  knowledge, current practices and perceptions regarding arbitration among companies  India. -house counsels are leveraging the advantages offered  this mechanism including speed  resolution, flexible processes and confidentiality  proceedings while overcoming the hurdles  undue delay  proceedings and lack  institutionai arbitration infrastructure. The future  arbitration  indicated  the survey looks cautiously optimistic owing  severai advantages and disadvantages that arbitration provides  the Indian landscape.  are pleased  share the insights from the survey through this report and  hope  wili provide interesting trends  companies  India.  are gratefui  our respondents consisting  Legai Counsels, Legai Heads and Company Secretaries  various companies  India who gave their time and thoughts  generously and enthusiastically. Vidya Rajarao Leader, Forensic ServicesDarshan Patei Executive Director, Forensic Services Foreword  PwC Contents Dispute Resolution Policy  effective safeguard  Arbitration . Litigation Pros and Cons  -hoc . Institutionai Arbitration -  Indian perspective  Seat  Arbitration Does  really matter?  Selection  Arbitrators The driving factors behind this decision  Effective use  Experts Choosing the right expert  Future  Arbitration  India Cautiously optimistic   PwCArbitration   leading method for resolving disputes arising from commerciai agreements and other domestic and internationai relationships. The practice  arbitration has developed    allow parties from different legai and culturai backgrounds  resolve their domestic and  cross border disputes, generally away from litigation. This study presents qualitative and quantitative feedback  the use and future  arbitration  India, gathered from  respondents comprising  Legai Counsels, Legai Heads and other legai personnei  various companies  India. The survey was conducted over ten months, through detailed -person interviews. The results  this survey broadly emphasise the attitudes and practices adopted  -house counsels  India towards effective resolution  domestic  weli  cross border disputes. Key messages from the study are  follows: Majority  the companies  India have  dispute resolution policy   the companies surveyed  India, who have  dispute resolution policy, include arbitration not litigation for resolution  future disputes.   the companies surveyed  India have  dispute resolution policy and confirmed inclusion   dispute resolution clause  contracts entered  their company. Companies generally indicated  flexible approach towards negotiating arbitration clauses. However, factors such  law governing the arbitration, seat  arbitration and language primarily drive the negotiation. Arbitration remains  preferred dispute resolution mechanism, despite certain loopholes and shortcomings  the arbitration environment  India  overwhelming majority  the companies surveyed used arbitration,  isolation   combination with another dispute resolution mechanism Top three factors that make arbitration the most preferred dispute resolution mechanism are: speed, flexibility and confidentiality. Executive Summary Corporate attitudes and practices 7Institutionai arbitration  yet   widely used  companies  India Majority  the companies that experienced arbitration preferred -hoc arbitration  over institutionai arbitration  while  indicated  neutrai approach. Further, companies with  prior experience  arbitration also indicated  preference for - hoc arbitration. Retired Supreme Court High Court judges are  preferred choice for arbitrators Companies with prior experience  arbitration preferred retired judges  arbitrators when the seat  arbitration   India and externai experts for cases where the seat  outside India. Top three factors that guide the selection  arbitrators are reputation and expertise  the relevant industry, knowledge  law applicable  the contract arbitration and prior experience  arbitration. Companies  India are yet  fully appreciate the tacticai significance  the seat  arbitration India, Singapore and England were noted  top three seats for arbitration. The choice  seat  arbitration was primarily driven  factors such  regionai advantage, cost effectiveness and advice  solicitors counsei. More companies are using expert evidence  arbitration proceedings More than half  the companies have used expert evidence  arbitration proceedings. Industry experts  experts for valuation accounting are typically appointed. The future  arbitration  India  optimistic   the companies with arbitration experience indicated that they would continue  use arbitration  future disputes.   the companies with  arbitration experience were also open  using arbitration  future disputes  PwC61  the companies engaged  commerciai transactions  India and outside have indicated having  dispute resolution policy. Companies  that did not have  formai dispute resolution policy also demonstrated positive signs  including  dispute resolution clause  their contracts. While drafting  contract, companies surveyed, indicated that   minimum they would include preferred law governing the contract  and seat  arbitration . Popularity  arbitration   alternate dispute resolution mechanism  evident   large number  companies are considering arbitration over litigation  resolve disputes  part  their crystallised dispute resolution policy .  dispute resolution policy provides  structured approach  resolving disputes, thus providing guidance  -house counsei  efficiently and effectively deai with disputes.  qualitative analysis  the responses revealed some  the most important benefits  maintaining  dispute resolution policy: Facilitates discussion regarding the availability  important modei clauses  mitigate potentiai risks when  dispute arises. Consistency across departments  the company  regards execution  contracts. Strategic advantage  the time  contract negotiation. Guidance for adoption  tiered dispute resolution procedures  minimise costs associated with dispute escalation. For example,  the event   dispute, there are pre-determined levels  escalation  the company. This would ensure that disputes are addressed  time and  the relevant authority. Appropriate guidance for adoption  dispute resolution mechanisms proportionate  the value  stake, thereby minimising dispute escalation. Facilitate dialogue between the legai department and the business units  the company and thereby enhance awareness  the available legai support. Does your company have  dispute resolution policy? Yes Not sureDispute Resolution Policy  effective safeguard  Corporate attitudes and practices 986  the companies surveyed had prior experience  domestic and  cross border dispute resolution. When asked what types  resolution processes they have used for domestic internationai disputes, nearly ali respondents  reported using arbitration either   standalone mechanism   combination with other mechanisms  used litigation,  had attempted mediation . . Categories are not mutually exclusive  certain respondents used  combination  the above mentioned dispute resolution mechanisms  resolve multiple disputes  the past. Why  most companies seek  avoid litigation? Companies conceded  greater familiarity  litigation process  opposed  arbitration. However,  most developing nations, litigation being  time consuming process, companies have steered away from using litigation  save time especially when large sums  money are locked  the dispute. Average time taken from the commencement  arbitrai proceedings  the award  less than three years, according  companies who used arbitration. Indicate which  the following dispute resolution mechanisms were used  your company  your experience, what  the average time  arbitration takes from the commencement  the arbitrai proceedings tili the award  passed? Arbitration . Litigation Pros and Cons  Does not totai   1oo owing  amultiple responses provided  respondents.   respondents did not provide  answer  this question.  PwCOther concerns that result  litigation being  less preferred choice include: rigid framework that litigation operates , and lack  confidentiality surrounding the proceedings. Companies that had experience  alternate forms  dispute resolution other than arbitration admitted doing   accordance with their organisationai policy, particularly with respect  disputes relating  low value contracts where arbitration would not   cost effective option. Alternatively, they continued  follow traditionai litigation for previously executed contracts that did not provide for arbitration  the event  dispute. Although majority  the companies opted for arbitration  due  various benefits, not ali had  satisfactory experience: The levei  dissatisfaction  substantiai for arbitrations seated  India  compared  arbitration seated outside India. What was the reason your company preferred arbitration over some other dispute resolution mechanism? Are you satisfied with arbitration seat  India  mechanism  resolve disputes? Are you satisfied with arbitration seat outside India  mechanism  resolve disputes? Satisfied Dissatisfied Mixed experienceSatisfied Dissatisfied Mixed experience Corporate attitudes and practices 11Satisfied Dissatisfied Mixed experienceBased  qualitative feedback, the levei  dissatisfaction may  attributed  the following roadblocks that hinder  efficient arbitration process  India: Lack  uniformity  the procedures and treatment  arbitrai awards has been  acute problem for parties adopting arbitration  resolve disputes. However, the recent Supreme Court judgement  the Bharat Aluminium2 case may   breather for arbitrations seated outside India. The arbitration award should  binding without recourse  challenge irrespective  the seat  arbitration. There   immediate need for tightening  grounds  challenge  award  India. Making  appeai again not only escalates the cost and time  arbitration proceeding but also makes the arbitration proceeding similar  litigation.  there   prescribed time limit within which the arbitration proceeding must  completed,  makes arbitration  less attractive mechanism for dispute resolution.   the companies experienced arbitration that lasted more than three  years.  observed from the qualitative responses, duration  more than three years for resolving disputes through arbitration was  tedious and expensive proposition for the parties. Constitution  the arbitrai tribunai   time consuming activity and was ranked  the top factor that has  bearing  the length  the arbitration proceedings, followed  exchange  pleadings, discovery and inspection  documents and enforcement  award. The time and cost  the proceedings  also affected significantly when the deficient parties take advantage  the loopholes  the procedures and the proceedings lack the requisite levei  professionalism. Arbitrators fee was among the top three factors that companies attributed  the cost  the arbitrai proceedings. Other factors included solicitors law firms' and counsei  professionai fees.  case  -hoc arbitration  India, there   smali club  seasoned arbitrators that companies can choose from. This causes  delay  the arbitration process due  lack  availability  such arbitrators. Such administrative hurdles increase the cost  the proceedings significantly, making   more expensive proposition  against litigation. . http: supremecourtofindia. nic.  outtoday ac7o19o5p. pdfThe levei  dissatisfaction  substantiai for arbitrations seated  India  PwCOne  the reasons cited  the companies for choosing arbitration over any other dispute resolution mechanism  flexibility  the procedure. This factor  flexibility rests  adopting either -hoc  institutionai arbitration. Majority  the companies  India that experienced arbitration preferred -hoc  over institutionai arbitration . Further, companies with  experience  arbitration also indicated  preference for -hoc arbitration.   important  note that companies having experience  arbitration indicated constitution  the tribunai  one  the top most reasons contributing  the length  the arbitration proceedings. One  the advantages  adopting institutionai arbitration  that  provides  mechanism and time frame for selection  the tribunai.  the other hand the flexibility offered  -hoc arbitration may lead   longer time frame for constitution  tribunai and other administrative procedures. Greater flexibility  procedures may not necessarily produce greater efficiency.  developed countries, institutionai arbitration   preferred type  arbitration owing  presence   variety  institutions, bespoke administration  the proceedings offered  such institutions, uniform rules and procedures  the institute, absence  interference from the country  legai system and arbitration friendly infrastructure available  such countries. Which  the following types  arbitrations does your company prefer? -hoc arbitration Institutionai arbitration NeutralAd-hoc . Institutionai Arbitration -  Indian perspective  Corporate attitudes and practices  Popularity  Arbitration Institutions Singapore Internationai Arbitration Centre SIAC and Industriai Arbitration Court IAC, Singapore, Internationai Chamber  Commerce ICC and London Court  Internationai Arbitration LCIA,  were widely opted  administer and resolve disputes. While choosing  institution, following reasons have Which  these arbitrai institutions,  any has administered your company  arbitrations  the past? been rated most significant  companies having experience  institutionai arbitration: Overali cost and fees, Reputation, and Neutrality and independence  the institution.  PwCWhile companies generally indicated  flexible approach towards negotiating arbitration clauses, they indicated that the seat  arbitration3 among other factors such  law governing the arbitration and language followed  the proceedings would primarily drive the negotiation.  internationai commerciai arbitration,    foremost importance that parties   dispute agree  the seat  arbitration. Choosing  seat  arbitration  cruciai for many reasons.  plays  unique role  deciding the law governing the arbitration procedure.  determines the support  intervention that may  received from locai courts  the course  arbitration.  also has  bearing  the process and rights relating  enforcement  the arbitration award. Participants  this survey were asked  indicate their preferred seat  arbitration and the top factors that would influence their choice. According  the responses, regionai advantage was ranked  the most important consideration  selecting the seat  arbitration, followed  cost effectiveness and lastly, the advice  solicitors counsei. Consistent with the above results for factors influencing the choice  seat  arbitration, respondents selected India  the most preferred destination for the obvious advantage  offers companies  India; followed  Singapore which  emerging   promising arbitration hub and viewed  many   cost Seat  Arbitration Does  really matter?  Consequently, when drafting  arbitration clause   new contract,   important  consider myriad factors when deciding upon the seat, particularly, how the locai arbitration law  the seat operates and whether the locai courts are arbitration-friendly. effective and neutrai venue  comparison  London, Paris etc. ; and lastly, England due  its long standing reputation   impartiai jurisdiction and efficiency  court proceedings. Though India   preferred choice   seat  arbitration, however  practice   not. The above results indicate that many -house counsels see the choice  seat  more  matter  convenience than  legai significance. This further suggests that some  not fully appreciate the significance  choosing the right seat for internationai arbitration. Also the -house legai departments might benefit from briefings  arbitration specialists  the legai consequences and tacticai opportunities arising from the choice  seat. .  internationai commerciai arbitration legislation and practices, the seat  arbitration usually refers  the place for arbitration, where the award  made. The terms seat and the place  arbitration are often used interchangeably. -house counsels see the choice  seat  more  matter  convenience than  legai significance Corporate attitudes and practices 15One  the primary advantages  arbitration often cited  companies  the ability  choose  decision maker with expertise  understand the nature  the dispute and resolve  effectively and efficiently.  arbitration, parties can mutually agree upon who wili serve  their arbitrator.  tribunai that  proactive and skilled  resolution  disputes wili contribute tremendously  managing the arbitration  the most cost and time effective manner. Because arbitrator selection  pivotai  the quality and outcome  the proceeding, carefui consideration should  given  how the arbitrator wili  selected, how many are needed and their specific qualifications. Knowledge  the applicable law and prior experience are desirable attributes   internationai arbitrator.  arbitration chairman  presiding arbitrator coupled with two arbitrators who are specialists  the applicable law industry ideally constitutes  versatile and informed tribunai. Such arbitrators are often appointed  respective parties  the dispute and the two arbitrators jointly appoint the presiding arbitrator chairman who can conduct the process with the necessary authority and dignity. The use   sole arbitrator  also  concept that  gradually being accepted   faster and cheaper option  comparison   three member tribunai. Companies highlighted various factors they take into consideration  appointing arbitrators. According  the results, companies  India primarily look for arbitrators with  established reputation  the arbitration community along with relevant industry and  regionai expertise.  case  arbitration seated  India, companies with prior arbitration experience preferred  appoint: Retired Supreme Court High Court judges , Senior counsei , Externai experts , Solicitors law firm partners  and Others . . District Court judges . Selection  Arbitrators The driving factors behind this decision  Retired Supreme Court High Court judges are preferred  arbitrators  PwCWhere the seat  arbitration  outside India, companies preferred: Externai experts , Solicitors law firm partners , Senior counsei , and District Court judges and  recommendation from tribunai  group counsei . Currently nearly two-thirds opt for retired Supreme Court  High Court judges  arbitrators, however, qualitative feedback from the respondents reveals that, arbitration proceedings  India are critically affected due  lack  availability   large club  arbitrators with requisite industry knowledge coupled with necessary professionai attitude.  instii confidence  the arbitration process, flexibility  the arbitrator-selection should  coupled with important standards for independence neutrality  the arbitrators. Consequently,  utilising  method that best meets their needs, parties   business dispute can effectively choose  arbitrator who wili hear their case   efficient and unbiased manner. Seat outside India Seat  IndiaWho amongst these  your company  preferred arbitrator? Companies who experienced arbitration Corporate attitudes and practices  Expert Witness   individuai who  qualified, because  his  her specialised knowledge, skili, training, education, and  experience  provide the court most often including the judge, opposing counsei, and any jurors present with  specialised opinion about evidence  about  particular fact  issue between the parties. Black  Law DictionaryNearly half the companies that resorted  arbitration have never used expert witnesses  part  the arbitration proceedings. This  not surprising  very often, parties   dispute prefer  use their own employees  determine the quantum  damages losses suffered. Companies typically perceive such employees  best suited  this role, given that they possess intricate knowledge about the company and are technically qualified  the industry  which the company operates. Additionally, such employees may have been involved  are aware  the matter  dispute and are conversant with the facts  hand. From the company  perspective, their use limits the possibility  leakage  confidentiai information  the public domain, with regard  the case and results  cost saving. How often have you used expert evidence  domestic  internationai arbitrations? Effective use  Experts - Choosing the right expert   PwCHowever, while employees may  proficient  understanding the industry and are knowledgeable about the company, they may lack the unique knack  presenting evidence and providing testimony before the Arbitrai Tribunai  they are inexperienced  understanding and dealing with the arbitration process. More importantly, employees lack independence and objectivity  opinion and may not possess the requisite skili  competence  compute damages. Accordingly, employees are best suited  fact witnesses due  their proximity  the issue.  the other hand, expert witnesses can  pivotai  strengthening  case that requires fairly complex damage calculations  intricate understanding   particular industry. For instance, cases that require the use  valuation methodologies such  the Discounted Cash Flow DCF method, internai rate  return etc. would benefit from  expert who  weli versed with such techniques. Similarly, cases that revolve around interpretation and application  complex accounting principles   the case  revenue recognition contracts, valuation  financiai instruments etc. would benefit from  expert who has substantiai experience  these fields. This can  collaborated with responses  the companies who indicated that they typically used experts  matters relating  valuations , accounting  and foreign law ;  industry specific experts  the field  financiai services, construction, engineering, oii and gas . Having said that, each case must  assessed   stand-alone basis and  assessment  whether  expert  needed must  made early and  conjunction with the counsei. Experts retained early and for  defined objective can add tremendous value  the arbitrai tribunai, counsei and client. Selection  the right expert   battle half won. Companies with arbitration experience stated the following top  considerations  selecting  expert: . Experience Seasoned experts posses deep expertise  the respective field along with the requisite ability  presenting evidence before  arbitrai tribunai. Thus, experience should undoubtedly   important criterion  selection   expert. . Reputation Reputation   expert witness must necessarily  one  integrity and honesty. The conduct  the expert witness before the tribunai can add credibility  discredit  previously written report. Among other aspects,  expert witness reputation wili  governed  his her ability  present materiai and opinions clearly and   style that fits the arbitrai system. . Prior relationship with Experts While prior relationship with the expert may lend  degree  comfort  the appointing party,   important that the expert  viewed  the tribunai  independent from the counsei, client and facts  the case. . Cost Cost  retaining  expert should  viewed  light  potentiai benefits  the case  hand. Companies assigned equai importance  their relationship with the expert and cost considerations  retaining  expert. Expert witnesses can help  strengthening  case that requires complex damage calculation with understanding  the industry Corporate attitudes and practices  Majority  the companies surveyed believe that the arbitration scenario  India looks optimistic  have explicitly mentioned that the scenario  arbitration  India looks either optimistic  very optimistic. Accordingly,  the companies with arbitration experience,  indicated that they would continue  use arbitration  the case  future disputes. Further,  the remaining respondents with  experience  arbitration,  were willing  use arbitration  the future.  has already been established that  overwhelming majority  corporations  India are opting for arbitration closely followed  litigation. However, the dissatisfaction associated with resolving disputes when seat  arbitration   India cannot  ignored.  India, change  contemplated and the Law Ministry has proposed its recommendations  amend the legislation. Domestic  internationai arbitration wili   sought after option for companies  India with such positive steps taken  the industry and the Government together.  qualitative analysis  the challenges faced  companies and their learning from the arbitration process suggests following two criticai points that wili contribute  shaping the future  arbitration  India; Need for  robust institutionai arbitration infrastructure  overcome  significant challenge relating  selection and availability  arbitrators and subsequent time and cost  the proceedings; and Realising the tacticai benefits  seat  arbitration. Future  Arbitration  India - Cautiously optimistic   companies would continue  use arbitration even  future disputes despite the challenges -person interviews were conducted with  companies and their Legai Counsels, Legai Heads and other legai personnei  obtain their quantitative and qualitative feedback  the arbitration landscape. Respondent  Designation Count Percentage Generai Counsei Deputy Generai Counsei   Other Legai Company Secretariai   Legai Officer   Totai  1oo .  Countries that the Respondent  comapny has operations  Count Percentage More than                 Totai  1oo Nature  cross border activity that the company engages  multiple responses Count Percentage Export  good services  third parties   Import  goods and services from third parties   Overseas branch sales offices   Others Joint Venture, Intellectuai Property, Private Equity Offshore Advisors, Engineering, Advisory services, Distribution facilities, Reinsurance, Shared Services etc.   Overseas manufacturing facilities   Overseas financing   Industry Sector multiple responses Count Percentage Financiai Services Banking   Information Technology   Pharmaceuticals   Construction Engineering Reai estate   Energy and Oii Gas   Manufacturing   FMCG Consumer durables   Media Entertainment   Shipping Maritime   Telecommunications   Retaii Consumer   Hospitality Leisure   Aerospace Defence   Transport Logistics   BPO Shared Services   Methodology Corporate attitudes and practices  PwC would like  thank the various companies who participated  this survey through their counsei and other legai representatives,  weli  Sushma Nagaraj Advocate who offered her pro bono support towards drafting  the survey questionnaire. The Editoriai Team for this whitepaper consisted  the following individuals: Vidya Rajarao India Leader, Forensic Services, PwC Darshan Patei Executive Director, Forensic Services, PwC Ankita Chawla Assistant Manager, Forensic Services, PwC Divya Rishi Associate, Marketing - Forensic Services, PwC Particular thanks  compiling this guide are also due  the following individuals  PwC: Shrinii Ruparelia Assistant Manager, Forensic Services Poonam Sanghavi Associate, Forensic Services Abhishek Kakar Brand CommunicationsAcknowledgement  company enters into  agreement with another entity expecting  become embroiled  disagreements. But disputes  happen. Complex dispute matters require the insight and experience  individuals who understand how  interpret companies books, records and financiai documents. PwC professionals provide business and financiai advice  lawyers and their clients  matters that represent some form  crisis  dispute. Our work often leads   provide expert testimony before the arbitration panei   the civii court. Our professionals have deep experience : Quantification  damages Expert witness testimony Accounting and Statisticai analysis Delay claim analysis  construction disputes Forensic technology digitai data collection and analysis PwC Forensic Services provides  nationai and globai network  analysts, actuaries, accountants, fraud examiners, and others who are leaders  their respective fields, offering  wide variety  skills  address the issues affecting parties. Our aim   work  partnership with clients  implement fraud controi methodologies, assist when incidents occur and  help with strategies and practices  reduce the risk  falling victim  fraud.  are able  work discreetly and use  range  different skills  assist our clients with their needs. This approach includes the use  experienced investigators, forensic accountants, computer forensic specialists and background researchers. The team combines proven evidence gathering skills with controi methodologies  produce effective results for our clients. Through our team  trained specialists  are also able  offer  complete computer forensic service  weli  test and advise   range  technicai  security issues. PwC Dispute Analysis Services PwC Forensic Services Corporate attitudes and practices 23Vidya Rajarao India Leader, Forensic Services Tei:   4o79 7oo2 Darshan Patei Executive Director, Forensic Services Tei:   6689 167o Kunai  Gupta Associate Director, Forensic Services Tei:  124 33o 6o36 Sanganagouda Dhawalgi Associate Director, Forensic Services Tei:   4o79 7o23 Raman Narasimhan Senior Manager, Forensic Services Tei:   4228 5o49 raman. narasimhan . pwc. comPwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcAbout PwC Contacts www. pwc.  This publication has been prepared for generai guidance  matters  interest only, and does not constitute professionai advice. You should not act upon the information contained  this publication without obtaining specific professionai advice.  representation  warranty express  implied  given   the accuracy  completeness  the information contained  this publication, and,  the extent permitted  law, PwCPL, its members, employees and agents accept  liability, and disclaim ali responsibility, for the consequences  you  anyone else acting,  refraining  act,  reliance  the information contained  this publication  for any decision based  . Without prior permission  PwCPL, this publication may not  quoted  whole   part  otherwise referred   any documents. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. AK492- May 2o13 Corporate Attitudes Practices. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India