Title: pwc_it-print
Date Published: 2013-02-04 16:25:28+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_it-print.pdf
Word Count: 2724
Sentence Count: 206
Average Sentence Length: 20.48

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
logistics: 60
business: 29
companies: 28
pwc: 27
sector: 26
transportation: 26
technology: 26
india: 22
chain: 21
also: 20
systems: 20
supply: 18
management: 18
information: 18
technologies: 15
service: 14
industry: 14
system: 14
key: 13
efficiency: 13

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Leveraging  Transforming the   sector www. pwc.  PwCIndian transportation and logistics  :  overview   interventions  the sector  Key initiatives undertaken  the government  Leveraging emerging technologies 14Table  contents Leveraging ITIn recent years, great emphasis has been laid  enhancing the supply chain efficiency  road  weli  off road. The government has also taken key initiatives  support the transportation and logistics sector  order  ensure that this sector contributes  the growth  the economy. Before investing  the country, foreign investors assess the infrastructure, most importantly the transportation and logistics sector.  addition, the user community  the sector has expectations from service providers  terms  order management, materiai handling, reai-time tracking and tracing, automated workflow based documentation, warehousing, materiai delivery and the electronic payment facility  service providers. PwC believes that  has  big role  play  improving the efficiency  the supply chain and also meeting the ever-rising expectations  the user community. Though the penetration    the Indian transportation and logistics sector has been quite low, there are huge opportunities  leverage  for the benefit  not only the logistics companies but also the consumer.   increasingly technology-driven environment, transportation and logistics companies need  adopt technology solutions that not only align themselves  the organisation  business needs but also help them achieve growth and efficiencies.  achieve competitive advantage, these companies need  leverage emerging technologies and best practices. They also need  adopt innovative ways  analysing data and tracking business performance parameters.   important  manage organisationai changes  create  culture that motivates employees during the implementation  these technologies. PwC   knowledge partner with CII  proud  publish this thought leadership. Rachna Nath Executive Director  Effectiveness PwCThe growth     primarily dependent  the growth  goods across different sectors within the country and goods traded with other countries. The figure shown above provides the totai trade  rupee terms over the last five years.  such, the index  industriai production IIP   good indicator  the levei  domestic industriai activity. India  manufacturing sector supported   consuming population  more than one billion has shown robust growth over the past decade. The logistics performance index ranking provided  the World Bank ranks India 46th among 155 countries. The main indicators  the LPI are the efficiency  the clearance process speed, simplicity and predictability  formalities  border-controi agencies, including customs, the quality  trade- and transport-related infrastructure ports, railroads, roads, information technology, the ease  arranging competitively, priced shipments, the competence and quality  logistics, services transport operators, customs, brokers and the ability  track and trace consignments. India ranks behind China  rank  and Brazii  rank  among the BRIC group. There   long way   covered  this sector  reach globai standards which would include excellent infrastructure and highly technology driven seamlessly integrated supply chain. Indian transportation and logistics    overview The Indian logistics market has evolved from traditionai transport companies   fuli-fledged logistics service provider, offering various supply chain services such  transportation, warehousing and other value additions.  comparison  other developing and developed countries, Indian logistics competitiveness has been low primarily due  the following: -Poor infrastructure -Low technology penetration -Low regulatory effectiveness -Fragmented industry participation Leveraging ITLogistics service providers PwC views the logistics industry  two verticals where one verticai provides transportation solutions through various modes and the other provides complete supply chain solutioning with facilities like  , inventory management, and other value-added services. Road transport has emerged  the dominant segment  India  transportation sector with  share  around   India  GDP  comparison  railways which has around  share  the GDP  2o1o-. Easy accessibility, flexibility  operations, door--door service and reliability have earned road transport  increasingly higher share  both passenger and freight traffic vis--vis other transport modes. The   market which demonstrates the consolidation and advancement  logistics players  terms  breadth  service  stili nascent  India.  makes  for more than   the logistics market  developed markets, but  stili   growing stage  India. Today, Indian   service companies often  not possess sufficient capabilities  provide services beyond conventionai transportation contracts. Many are not able  respond  the increasing demand for value-added services such  customs clearance, cross docking, reverse logistics, labelling  packaging. Sector challenges  road carrier has  stop  numerous locations for the physicai verification  documents. The checks are essentially made  ensure that taxes  the state  destination have been paid, trucks are not overloaded, comply with safety stipulations and carry valid papers. This issue  more amplified  the presence  segregated sales tax administration, multiple laws and  manuai and segregated vehicle registration system.   and  particular warehousing,   capitai-intensive sector characterised  low margins. This has its effect  the expansion plans  the numerous logistics players. There  acute shortage  trained manpower  the   sector. The present workforce does not have the requisite skills  handle the entire supply chain and training  personnei wili  key  the success  players. PwC The unorganised nature  the industry especially  road transport and skili shortage has further led  non-standardised operating procedures with its inherent inefficiency. Paucity  funds discourages operators from investing  technologicai upgradation  vehicles, including adopting energy efficiency standards  weli   tools like vehicle and consignment tracking using Globai Positioning System GPS and Radio Frequency Identification RFID technologies.    mired with many such issues and overcoming these  key for its next stage. Technology has the potentiai  solve some  these challenges and help the sector leapfrog. Technology and business Technology adoption  driven  two primary factors--increasing internai efficiency which  the operationai aspect and increasing externai business responsiveness dependent   complete supply chain based  business strategy and long term planning. Technology can bridge the business vision with reai-time operationai activities  business.  can help enable the following: Synchronisation, thus increasing the effectiveness  strategic decisions and improving the efficiency  operations Agility, which helps increase flexibility with strategic decision-making and standardisation  operationai applications Source: PwC Technology Forecast Leveraging ITIT interventions  the sector Technology  the logistics and supply chain industry   blend  delivering globai business solutions  locai geographies. With businesses crisscrossing across private and public houses, the user community  the sector perceives this business   combination  infrastructure and operations where technology plays the role  glue.  believe that organisations have started looking  the transportation and logistics function  criticai and differentiating rather than  business-enabling  support function. While the larger players with deep pockets have made steady inroads  investment  this function, the smaller, family  proprietor-driven firms   India are yet  make significant investment around technology and talent  this function. Given the globai challenges, rising fuei prices and the constant demand for near-perfect delivery, the role  information and how  can assist  leaner and smarter logistics function has never been more important than now. Therefore, what should  the role  the CIO  the logistics and supply chain industry?  view this role  three dimensions: Accelerate the efforts  help optimise operations and improve customer connect Adapt emerging technologies  drive continuity and costs Action the people agenda  order  make the transition from the current state  the desired state, transportation and logistics organisations wili  through the following stages  evolution  the technology roadmap. Increase   adoption has provided  boost  the growth and maturity  logistics players  India wherever   not only implemented but also institutionalised  daily activities. India    technology market  growing steadily, with the upswing  demand from the thriving logistics, retaii, pharma, agri and manufacturing sectors,  weli  through government promotion. The growth  India   major sourcing nation for the world  leading retailers  also ramping  demand for appropriate information technology intervention. This ensures seamless flow  information across the complete supply chain and also provide relevant data for business analytics. Some  the other key benefits observed with  intrusion are detailed  below section. These benefits have driven the companies  implement relevant   their organisation are reaping the fruits with   differentiator  their sustainable growth plan. PwCIT plays multiple roles  the Indian logistics sector. However, its primary objective   enforce and cleanse internai hygiene and manage operations with increased efficiency.  also plays conventionai roles such  increasing productivity and standardisation  information management. Other key benefits    envisaged  the CIO  the   companies are  follows: Increasing customer account management, relationship and accessibility Integration  off-road and -road movement  consignment and vehicle Reai-time tracking and tracing  consignment and vehicles off-road and -road Standardisation  processes and improving process efficiency Reducing labour costs and handling fuei and sales management costs Increasing transparency and accountability within the organisation Quick response and access  informationBenefits   interventions Key  interventions With this view, PwC suggests the indicative target operating modei for cargo transportation and logistics company  shown below.  maps key users, communication mechanism, and the widely used and accepted technologies  the industry  order  achieve the objectives defined above.  understand that  optimise operations and improve customer interactions,  needs  focus  some  the following aspects: Making systems flexible  allow implementation  business transformation easier Increasing the efficiency  key value points across the supply chain  reduce costs and delays Integration  key stakeholders  the value chain  that information can  consolidated and shared across the value chain for better visibility and execution Leveraging ITIndicative  target operating modei for cargo transportation and logistics companies Enterprise resource planning ERP: PwC considers ERP   hygiene factor. ERP not only integrates the corporate and business functions   organisation enabling them  communicate and share information, but also provides great opportunities  the companies  redefine their internai processes with globai best practices. Warehouse management system WMS: This   end--end solution for warehouse management that links different systems such  computerised vehicle routing, scheduling packages and integrated supply chain systems  monitor incoming goods, customer orders and stock levels. Efficient storage and movement  goods can  accomplished  such  system. The implementation  this system depends  the number  integration points, size and complexity  the supply chain. The need for WMS  completely dependent  the complexity  terms  size and volume  warehousing operations and throughput efficiency  terms  operationai productivity: For service providers with smali warehouses  cities  towns that cater  locai distributors and suppliers, traditionai ways  managing operations and tracking inventory  preferable. PwC1o PwC For service providers operating   regionai levei, who have significantly large operations with considerable volumes mini WMS solutions are available that are good  managing inbound and outbound operations. They also help manage and track inventory levels. Organisations using various ERPs can also extend their ERP systems and use  WMS module that wili help resolve integration challenges. Such solutions can  customised and are also easy  the pocket. RFID: Tracking and tracing vehicles, consignments, containers and other equipment  ali locations . ,   off road  very important for transportation and logistics companies. The people who use their services have also started demanding reai time tracking  the movement  their consignments. The radio frequency identification devices RFID address this need. For timely delivery  consignments, RFID along with vehicle tracking systems track the location  vehicles. These RFID readers and tracking devices can  integrated with ERP and WMS  required. NHAI and the ministry  road transport and highways are also working  this direction  manage toli collections with the implementation  RFID  ensure faster movement  vehicles  toli gates. Fleet management system: This  being slowly accepted  the transporters for managing their fleet  vehicles and other materiai handling devices including cranes. Such systems help the companies track and controi the maintenance cost  their vehicles and equipment. Some  the companies have initiated building profit and loss sheets per vehicle using this system. These systems can also  integrated with ERP and RFID systems for seamless flow  information. Scheduling systems: Manuai vehicle planning and routing has been  challenge for transport companies. Few companies have implemented computerised vehicle and scheduling systems with complete data pertaining  consignee and consignor. This has resulted  the accurate and efficient scheduling along with better vehicle utilisation  road.   observed that this automated routing has tremendously increased the service delivery efficiency resulting  higher customer satisfaction. Few  the other technologies usefui for transportation and logistics companies are  follows: Hand held devices for managing proof  delivery Satellite navigation systems  accurately locate the consignee  consignor locations Scanners and other security devices Ali these technologies can  integrated with ERP and other  applications for managing their core operations.  Leveraging ITKey barriers   adoption This sector  generally perceived   reluctant  investing  . Severai factors like the unorganised and fragmented nature  the sector, lack  regulatory compulsions and the view  the business leaders     expense rather than  investment are said  have contributed  the low penetration    this sector. Some  the other factors that act  barriers  smooth  adoption  transportation and logistics sector are  follows: Unavailability   perfect fit system: The transportation and logistics operations are quite complex and needs specific functionalities  the  systems. Fitment   off the shelf product that satisfies the end--end needs  this sector  stili questionable. Base ERP products, available  the market require high levels  customisation and implementation time, thereby increasing costs. Technology costs and affordability: The transportation and logistics industry has perceived technology and solutions  expensive and  times unaffordable. Since the companies have evolved with their unique legacy processes, their  system  applications need   customised  the company  requirements. This results  tremendous increase  end product cost. Low allocation    the budget: Most warehousing firms  not have  formai  budgeting process and hence don  plan for their  investments. Majority  the logistics market comprises smali and medium-scale players who due  increased competition  the sector work  wafer thin margins. This results  little   allocation    their budgets. Limited  benefits perceived: Most logistics firms are managed  smali entrepreneurs who  not have  good understanding   and its benefits. Restricted support from end customers: Transportation and logistics companies have been wary  the fact though their customers desire reai time information, online tracking  consignment and faster resolution  their grievances with  intervention -ticketing systems, they are unwilling  pay for these investments  . Players find  difficult  manage these expectations and maintain costs, resulting  their reluctance  spend  . Skilled resources: This sector  India lacks skilled talent that has  and logistics knowledge. These resources are required  run and maintain the application  that the intended benefits that the application provides can  realised. Very few logistics sector employees undergo  training during the course  their employment. Standard business processes: Standardised business processes are not defined across ali internai and externai functions. This causes high levels  individuai customisation  systems. Transformation  such business processes becomes difficult because the systems are not flexible enough  incorporate the changes within  reasonable time and cost. Culturai barriers: Traditionally transportation and logistics businesses have been operated  unskilled  semi-skilled resources. This makes  difficult for the employees  accept change and transform their organisation through  intrusion. PwCThere are severai transportation and logistics companies  India who have invested  excess  .    average percentage  the capex into  but even they are facing severai challenges. Key among them  that they are unable  capitalise  their  initiatives  maximise business opportunities. However,  believe that these challenges are different when the organisations moves   the maturity curve. Some  the reasons for challenges are  follows: The  department  usually headed   non- resource and the  manager  seen only   procurer and supplier   goods services. There  rarely any long term  vision and roadmap  transportation and logistics companies. Mostly the implementation    sporadic and need based leading  stack  standalone applications systems creating silos. Inability  measure the success and utilisation  current  envisaged  systems. Ever changing business processes and business requirements Indecisiveness  invest further  major  initiatives    not the priority  the management Business processes partially continue   manuai, while some are upgraded  the  system Unwillingness  discard current systems and move  new ones. Ongoing decisions required during implementation are not taken seriously Inadequate internai stakeholders expectations and change management PwC   the view that for the transport and logistics industry  benefit from , this function needs  have  systematic organisationai structure and the roles and accountabilities need   redefined.  believe organisations need  recognise the fact that the roles  the chief information officer CIO and the head  technology are fast evolving.  the CIO  the head  technology has  make  relevant and  key prominent  business change, then  she has  constantly innovate and drive the experientiai delivery aspect. This must  done irrespective  whether the customer  internai  externai. CIOs and technology heads need  start focusing  benefit management more than programme management during and after the  implementation. Adopting new age technology has    part  the daily routine. Given the margin pressures  this industry, every penny wili  questioned. This makes  imperative for the CIOs and CTOs  have the list  non-negotiable and relevant technology interventions for stakeholder expectation management. Leveraging ITKey initiatives undertaken  the government People continuously expect the logistics service providers  provide world class delivery services. This propels the companies  rely more   for efficient and smooth flow  their consignments. PwC believes that government policies and initiative could also prove    catalyst  the faster penetration    transportation and logistics companies. The government  also sensitive  this fact and has been working directly and indirectly  this direction. Some  the interesting initiatives taken  government are  follows: Implementation  freight operation information systems FOIS: This   computer network based information system that has been designed  give strategic advantages  both Indian railways and its customers. The network links various freight handling points, traffic controi and rolling stock maintenance depots with the railways administration. FOIS wili provide continuous cargo visibility and enable freight customers  have instant access  information regarding the current status  their consignments  transit and the expected time  arrivai  its destination. This wili help the industriai customers  achieve just--time inventory levels. Once   fully implemented, FOIS wili facilitate acceptance  customers orders for wagons and rakes fuli length train formations, billing  freight charges  the railways and its payment  the customer electronically, and along with the introduction  -commerce wili make the entire business chain seamless. FOIS consists  two fully computerised modules, namely rake management system for handling the freight movement portion and terminai management system TMS for managing the commerciai transactions with the customers. Implementation  electronic toli collection  India  highway network  ease delays and traffic congestion  toli collection points: The ETC system would enable  smoother thoroughfare  traffic  toli plazas  facilitating automatic vehicle identification AVI and electronic collection  toli.  per CRISIL Research, currently, there are close  525 toli plazas, operating  nationai and state highways  India. Over , ooo vehicles cross these plazas daily, each queuing  for approximately - minutes awaiting their turn  pay the toli fare. Each vehicle consumes almost . -.  litre  fuei   hour. Collectively, these vehicles spend around , 8oo-, 6oo hours  toli plazas. PwCLeveraging emerging technologies Gains  operationai efficiency can  credited   more expansive use   that helps businesss run faster and more effectively.  believe that adapting emerging technologies  drive low cost and create scalable and flexible systems wili  key  the overali success  the  function. Few companies outside the pure web space have become truly digitai  which information and the ability  act   creates significant economic and competitive value. Leading companies are capitalising  digitai ecosystems that are expanding due  the confluence  sociai networks, mobile computing, analytics, and cloud computing SMAC. SMAC challenges enterprises  take advantage  the positive disruptions  portends, while they operate  the rapid pace  innovation and change that demands. SMAC and other emerging technologies create the possibility for new ways  develop products, interact with customers, partner with others, compete and succeed. More than strategy for any individuai technology trend  for combining more than one  them, companies needs  systematic approach  engage with these technologies. Companies that have the most success engaging with SMAC are rethinking their business and enterprise architectures and emphasising three fundamentai changes. They acknowledge that SMAC trends are the strongest signai yet that business ecosystems are becoming more digitised, where information content accounts for  rising proportion  the entire value  any product  service. They understand that successfully tapping the new drivers  value requires  digitai operating modei,  modei attuned  participating   integrating with expanding digitai ecosystems. Successfui companies are adjusting their business and enterprise architectures  allow easy digitai connections. The confluence  SMAC trends  driving this shift  business value. PwC anticipates that information associated logistics services wili increasingly account for  rising share  the customer  experience  value delivered,  illustrated below. Customer  experience  value delivered Leveraging ITScaling integrations requires  digitai operating modei While each SMAC technology has its own unique impact, the technologies are complementary  support  work getting done. The cloud increasingly contains more  the information and applications that people use. Mobile devices give people access  the cloud,  other data sources, and  each other.  empowers the authorized users   more efficient with data  his finger tips Analytics help them make actionable sense  ali that data. Sociai media helps people find colleagues service providers with whom  collaborate and -create. The collective impact  SMAC  the enterprise operating modei   broad that  helps  think about the SMAC technologies   integrated whole from  strategic viewpoint  illustrated below. Strategic view point  SMAC Trends Relationship with work Sociai Who  work with Mobile How  get  work Analytics What  work , the meaning  work Cloud Where   the work Emerging trends and business process improvementEmerging technology embarked   journey  adopt high-quality innovative  and business process improvement solutions PwCWe recognize that SMAC  very relevant  the transport and logistics sector and many  the challenges pertaining   barriers could  addressed with the adaption  these technologies. Few  the transportation and logistics companies have effectively initiated hosting  sales and contract related workflow based application  cloud. This has helped them reduce cost  application and infrastructure heads.  similar lines, mobility solutions could  used for managing the delivery status through SMS and could add value  integrated with automated hand held devices for POD management. Invoice management, payment outstanding and collection reconciliation are generai challenges which could  addressed with these mobility solutions  integrated with ERP  other related  applications.  also believe that sociai media could   game changer for the organisations providing complete supply chain solutions  their end customers. With -commerce emerging   strong marketplace, the supply chain solution providers would need  stay engaged with end users online through sociai media. This medium would   effective mechanism  gather relevant feedback and also emerge   strong branding agent. Though the direct clients  transportation and logistics companies have started building strategies around using sociai media technology,   yet  take any concrete step towards  effective usage  this platform. Leveraging ITNotes PwCTo address the need  sharpening India Inc  competitive edge through better Logistics and Supply Chain practices, CII Institute  Logistics CIL was established  2oo4  the Confederation  Indian Industry   Center  Excellence  Logistics and Supply Chain.  CII Institute  Logistics  create  platform for the Industry  gain more insights into the emerging trends, industry specific problems  nationai importance and globai best practices  logistics supply chain management.  enable the industry  cut down the transaction cost, increase efficiency, and enhance profitability and enable  sensitize and bring solutions  macro levei issues. The Vision CII Institute  Logistics  become  Internationai Centre  Excellence  Logistics and SCM and  facilitate Indian industry   referred  Globai Business for its Best Practices  SCM and Logistics. The Mission CII Institute  Logistics    platform  create and share intellectuai capitai for reducing transaction cost and improving competitiveness,  the process nurture the skills  Logisticians and ensure adoption  Best Practices  Logistics and SCM through online and offline activities. For over four years now, CII Institute  Logistics, the country  premier Centre  Excellence  logistics and SCM, has enabled  number  exemplary success stories  logistics. About CII Leveraging ITPwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_INAbout PwC Rachna Nath Executive Director Direct:    6669 1539 Mobile:   982o865684 Emaii: rachna. nath . pwc. com Dilraj Singh Gandhi Managing Consultant Direct:  124 462o272 Mobile: 919818215814 Emaii: dilraj. singh. gandhi . pwc. com Aditya Rath Managing Consultant Direct:   6669 14o8 Mobile:  992o3 41779 Emaii: aditya. rath . pwc. com Reach out   www. pwc.  2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Inter nationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  447 - February 2o13 - . indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India