Title: pwc_people-oriented-architecture
Date Published: 2013-09-19 18:10:15+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_people-oriented-architecture.pdf
Word Count: 2456
Sentence Count: 205
Average Sentence Length: 18.58

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
employees: 56
employee: 51
rewards: 37
pwc: 29
people: 25
organisation: 20
totai: 19
architecture: 18
services: 18
management: 17
persona: 17
based: 16
oriented: 15
platform: 15
business: 13
benefits: 12
work: 11
survey: 11
compensation: 11
concept: 11

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

People oriented architecture www. pwc.  September 2o13 Introduction  Establishing the background  People  organisation: Nurturing relationships  Know your people  Developing the architecture  Case study p14  PwC People oriented architecture  IntroductionDigitisation has made  imperative for businesses  introduce new models that provide flexibility, scalability and increased job satisfaction.  also impacts operations and strategy  building business relationships. Employee remuneration accounts for  major share  costs budgeted   organisation. With the dynamic work environment, the traditionai remuneration management has been facing great challenges both  the public and private sectors. Consequently, this leads   lot  problems that can affect the performance   organisation and even cause existentiai threats.  survey has demonstrated that the cash reward which was considered    cruciai factor  organisations  not  important. Based   2oo2 survey  , 5oo employees  ali ages conducted  Nelson Motivation, Inc, San Diego, California, the ranks  employee motivators  descending order are  follows: .  learning activity . Flexible working hours . Verbai praise . Increased authority . Autonomy . Time with their manager . Time off from work . Public praise . Choice  assignment . Written praise What  noteworthy  that the cash reward ranks fifteenth  importance.  recent years, some other reward-related glossaries also spring   the progress  new-fashioned market economics, for example, salary management, salary administration, payment  pay management, compensation management, reward management, etc. The common ground being that ali  them focus  how  redound employees, simply  slightly different approaches. Modern rewards management appears and develops  the context  managing transformation.  does not simply acknowledge and redound the members contributed  the organisation,  fact,    specific action scheme  company strategic objectives and values outlook conversion.  some extent, the modern rewards management breaks through the categories  money and substance, which indicates that indirect income and some non-monetary compensation are factors that are significantly important  the reward structure design. These days, companies generally have  totai reward management programme, which takes into consideration the goals  their employees. This  necessary for the programme    relevant and accepted  the employees.  the globai economy recovers, more and more companies realise that talent  their biggest challenge. Efficient talent management  one  the most important issues  the mind  the CEO. . . Forbes magazine New organisations More experientiai, collaborative and sociai learning oriented Performance management: Sociai and peer-driven reviews Stress  employee engagement Brand matters Flexible roles and dynamic labour pools Flexible work arrangements: Remote, sharing and temporary Richer user experience Increase  leveraging crowd-sourcing techniques for innovation People-centric Everyone contributes Collective intelligence Globai collaboration  PwC Establishing the background  recent PwC -NASSCOM survey with  executives reveals  interesting trend  employee expectations.   turns out, employees are seeking  golden combination  enhanced performance coupled with  perfect work-life balance. The pay  important, but  only goes  far. Higher wages won  cause employees  automatically perform   higher levei. Commitment, work ethic, and motivation are not entirely based  the pay structure. Based  the PwC Survey,  see the current trends and adoption statistics  today  organisation, people are looking for  holistic experience  their organisation. Employees are laying more stress  intangible factors such  work-life balance, innovation  workplace, flexible work options, customisable career paths than ever before. Clearly the need for totai rewards within  organisation focussed   individuai  preference, career goals and life stage  driving  strategies across the globe. People technology: Need  the hour The 14th Annuai Globai CEO Survey conducted  PwC presents  few stark findings: How are CEOs tackling talent shortage? Investing heavily  attracting and retaining talent Aligning their people and business strategies going forward Integrating  with business planning  the highest levels  the company Seventy nine per cent  the CEOs say the CHRO  one  their direct reports Building -house talent through promotions within their companies over the next three years Apart from these, management has  focus  information gaps  various quantitative parameters which determine the health   organisation. Employees are  company  greatest asset -- they  your competitive advantage. You want  attract and retain the best; provide them with encouragement, stimulus, and make them feei that they are  integrai part  the company  mission. Anne . Mulchahy, CEO, Xerox CorporationVery relevant Relevant Non relevantKey organisationai challenges that would define the future Considering the talent required for the success  your business over the next  years, what are the key challenges you expect  face? Base: Ali respondents , 2o1 Source: PwC 14th Annuai Globai CEO Survey People oriented architecture  People  organisation: Nurturing relationshipsThe employee-organisation relationship  cruciai throughout the employees journey.  each milestone, organisation should reward the employee appropriately  that   she feels valued. One  the basic principles through which organisations reward employees  their compensation. But   observed, current trends reflect compensation being inadequate. There   graduai evolution from the compensation based rewarding   totai rewards mechanism. Evolution from the CTC oriented incentives  totai rewards mechanism Based  the 16th PwC CEO survey, the traditionai pay for performance modei had the following limitations: There   discord between increases  monetary compensation and the end return that could  achieved  the employees Salary was not the best motivator for increasing the performance  the employees The company strategy could not  directly linked  the compensation  the employees Linking employees performance  salary increases the variable component  the compensation structure, which the employees  not prefer  comparison  fixed components. Employees value monetary rewards but non-monetary rewards such  recognition, advancement, learning, globai opportunities, benefits, work-life balance and culture may reduce the pressure  direct compensation.   important  understand how employees value the incentives provided. Linking metrics and KPIs derived from the overali business strategy  incentive plans wili create  strong link between the employee  expectations and the organisation  vision. Fine-tuning this link for  broader group  employees can improve the recognition value  the incentive plans. Compension  not the only factor for which employees join  companyNon-monetary benefits like recognition are  major factor  motivating the workforceCompany objectives cannot  directly linked  employee salary. The totai rewards mechanism can  aligned with the objectives  employee  motivation   direct result  the sum  interactions with the organisation. . . Bob Nelson, motivationai speakerEmployee journey Motivationai levers  PwCIn order  add the above aspects, the concept  totai rewards came into existence. Totai rewards incentivise the employees with more than just monetary emoluments. Organisations structure their technology and processes  that  each touch point  the employee-organisation relationship, employees receive rewards that they value more and make their work more productive. Totai rewards programme essentially focusses  improving employee experience and job satisfaction. Employees can  rewarded   number  ways, but these can  majorly categorised into the following groups. Monetary benefits: This  the basic driver for  employee  relationship with the firm. Employees want competitive salary structure which  transparent and weli defined with the employee  skills. Non-monetary rewards: Employees want secondary benefits which may  long term  applicable  persons associated with him  her. This strengthens the bond with the organisation. Recognising the effort: Spot recognition, appreciating excellence motivates the employee  increase his  her efforts and encourages peers simultaneously Flexibility:  number  facilities can  provided  make the work life balance easier for the employee. Studies  have shown that employees with access  flexible work arrangements tend   more satisfied, committed and engaged with their jobs, which leads  increased innovation, quality, productivity, and growth. Opportunities: Employees look for growth and other opportunities, cruciai for  successfui career. Firm can provide opportunities for learning, trainings, movement, internships and other diverse experiences. Following diagram shows some  the aspects which can  focused while designing rewards structure under each dimension not exhaustive. Monetary benefits Non-monetary rewards Recognition  effort Flexibility Opportunities Fixed pay Insurance Client appreciation Flexible hours Learning Tax benefits Leave Seniority rewards Externai activities associations Trainings certifications Variable pay Medicai benefits Excellence spot rewards Dependents related Globai movements Profit sharing Long term benefits Externai contribution Peronai interest platforms Internships apprenticeships . PwC Publication: Meeting tomorrow  workforce needs Flexible workforce arrangements Totai rewards Dimensions   persona People oriented architecture  Know your peopleIt  difficult  decipher why some employees work harder than their peers toward the same goai  objective,  why some seem  care more  exert greater effort   project   support  the company  vision and direction. Stepping back  look  the science  human behaviour can give enormous insight into what really drives people  make choices and take action. However,  business and  the design  employee reward and recognition initiatives, too often companies faii  consider people whose behaviour they are seeking  influence. Companies must better understand their employees  individuals  effectively motivate and engage them.  revealing statistic from  recent study  Germany  renders more obvious the need for organisations  gain greater insight  their employees. Although the survey  carried out  Germany but  offers  universai lesson. Organisations should make employee engagement  priority for better employee retention.  has been observed that companies with recognised and engaged employees are more likely  enjoy improved customer satisfaction, revenue growth, and greater customer retention. Better employee engagement start from knowing your employees better. Hence   essentiai  follow  structured approach  having  set employee persona. Such  persona   target employee group towards which the totai rewards strategy could  mapped based  the characteristics. The objective  such  strategy   provide the employees with  totai rewards package based  their own persona which may  turn motivate employees  perform better. What empowers your employees? The firm since the beginning  the employee engagement period,  responsible  empower every employee  providing  comprehensive support ecosystem that wili not only provide them with timely and structured information  stay compliant with the firms policies but also help them develop professionally and enhance productivity. Empowerment principles Outcome Visibility  services Personalisation Enabling ease  operations CommunicationImprovement  employee compliance Knowledge repository Learning, training and development Sharing and collaborationIncrease productivity and completing the deliverables Recognition Rewards and incentives MotivationIncreasing the stickiness  the firm  employee  motivation   direct result  the sum  interactions with his  her manager. Bob Nelson . Survey conducted  Germany  Oracle and market research institute Innofact. Survey results: Employee insights survey  PwCHR imperatives The existing  technology and service delivery environment has become increasingly complex, choices that were once clear, have become clouded. Traditionai  systems that handled record keeping and delivering chores have now undergone major transformations. There are enterprise resource planning ERP systems; outsourcing and off shoring firms; third party administrators TPAs; bolt-ons,  best--breed standalone system solutions; web-enabled systems; application service providers ASPs; interactive voice response IVR systems; and  service centres who are capable  keeping records and delivering services. The employee and the firm stili form the nucleus  the  strategy. With each passing month, solutions available for  services evolve and change. New technologies enter the market, competitive strategies shift, and vendors themselves may    constant state  flux. Acquisitions can lead  duplication and fragmentation, even  legacy technologies lose support. However, executives continue  demand increased functionality and service. The business demands more from the  systems   delivered   acceptable cost within  overali business modei. Hence for   build  sustainable employees organisation there are three things that are   imperative, simplifying processes, engaging employees and optimising costs. These can  achieved effectively through  persona based approach. Engage employees Predict employee turnover Manage compensation and incentives Manage scale  people operationsLeveraging the best talent  business Creating the persona Based  the below areas criteria  employee Persona could  created  better understand your employees DesignationAge group Business unit Education Focus areaExperience Persona  InterestsRoleDimensions   persona People oriented architecture 9o5 Developing the architecture Linking the personas  the totai rewards Once  set  personas are identified for  organisation,  needs   determined which  the aspects  totai rewards suits the specific persona. This can  determined based   study  existing employee profiles surveys designed  find out the ideai rewards which suits the employees. Employees want more than  paycheck. . . Marissa Meyer, CEO, Yahoo The dotted line represents rewards dimensions which are appreciated  the persona; above  just  example, actuai mapping  determined using primary research within  organisation.   similar manner, the set  personas identified within organisations can  linked  specific aspects  the rewards structure  defined. Whenever employee services are designed this mapping can  used  fine tune services  that each  the benefits can  personalised  weli  maximised for the broader set  employee groups. Designing employee services based rewards  order  develop organisation  employee service platforms and  maximise the value for the employees  linking   the totai rewards mechanism,   important  define the measurement parameters which can  associated with the services provided.  have considered the following set  services based  the employee  journey with the firm along with measurable parameters not exhaustive. Example: How  build  persona Fixed and Variable Compensation  most impo rtant Less number  Leaves  nts   apprecia ted  senior management Requires mobili  solution  for mainting  dynami  life Need   create  speializatio  Globai Mobili tyPersona Young  Professionai Age Group: -3oEducat iona  Back ground: Engine ering Gradua teExperie nce: Role: Technica  LeadDesignation: System Engine  Business Unit: Informatio  Technolog  Focus Areas: Growth, Learning, Collaboratio  Moneta  Benefits Non-Moneta  RewardsRecognitio   EffortFlexibilit  Oppo rtunitie - years  PwCFor aligning these measurable parameters  the totai rewards mechanism, there needs    strategy  concept  place that the organisation adheres .   not possible  measure each and every parameter and link   the rewards  one .  few  the parameters should  used for validating the effectiveness  the modei. Going  the current trends, some  the new emerging concepts that the organisation can use  link these parameters are  follows. Use  sociai BPM Using this employees are able  collaboratively work   common project through  online interface. Records are kept regarding which employee worked  which process and how much effort was utilised.  also faciliates   open platform for communicating ideas, sharing and contributing over  same topic. This increases employee interaction and reduces turnover time for deliverables. Employee wallet Employee digitai wallet   motivationai tooi which can  used  organisations  keep their employees engaged. They can  made  part  strategic activities like poli feedbacks, surveys, knowledge sharing and blogging, promoting strategic initiatives through  increased awareness and participation and other compliance activities. The concept  based   simple rewarding mechanism where the employee  rewarded with points  performing certain desired actions which are decided  the firm. The accumulated points constitute the employee  digitai wallet and can  redeemed against the various brand items   extra leaves. Gamification Gamification   systematic way  employing  game design  motivate desired behaviour.   not only used for motivating the customers but also the employees. Why are video games successfui despite gamers not being paid  play? The people who indulge  gaming are are eager  test their own abilities, and are interested  interacting with others playing the game. The best multiplayer games offer many challenges, rich virtuai worlds, and the opportunity  lead, compete, and collaborate. Video games have directly catered  the human need for autonomy, mastery, purpose, and relatedness. Companies can learn from the gamers how  motivate and challenge stakeholders, and can accordingly modify their online environments  enrich interaction. Collective ideation Collective Ideaion   new collaborative concept where  organizationai initiative  change  done  collective decisions from the employees mostly  the form  contests  other interactive excercises. This increases the involvement  the employee and provides  sense  attachment  the organization.  simple example  this can  decisions related  facility management, event management  new business modei. Employee self service, payrollCollaborative platform Performance managementKnowledge repository Frequency  use Time saved over paperbased services Contributions Referrals Participation Ratings Idea count   meetings collaborative work Points accumulation Kra Performance rating Compliance Escalations Appreciations Contributions Frequency  use Discussions, wikis Rating content Verification Learning and development system News and communication Brand shop corporate commerce Trainings completed Training outcomes Goai setting and achievement Mentoring Response  interactive topics Communication initiated Recognition frequency Contribution  news articles Products used Reviews Points utilized Badges People oriented architecture  Whenever  strategic initiative  taken  such  concept  implemented,   necessary  know which services can benefit. The orange points show where the concept can  used effectively.   example  can  said using gamification, points can  generated out  the activities  the collaborative platform. Performance management can  made competitive, article contributions can  increased  using concept  game levels, learning and development can  made  providing badges, responses  communication can  increased using referrai points and brand shop can  utilised more  using the points generated. This  how the above chosen services can  built around the gamification concept.   similar manner, other concepts can  used  improve specific services. Once the concept and the services are linked, the measurement parameters for the chosen services can  mapped  the respective reward parameters  generate  effective totai rewards programme. Coupled with the personas, this forms  effective way  design both rewards and services for the holistic user experience that the firm wants  offer. Implementation matrix: where  focus  PwC Combining  form the people oriented architecture The below architecture shows the linkage  the employee services and the totai rewards  the employees filtered through personas. This modei  designed  the basis  one  multiple concepts which are designed  increase employee engagement. Using this people oriented architecture; organisations can bring out the focus points which wili provide the most impact when designing  service  weli  keeping the employees engaged using  innovative methodology. Architecture blueprint Employ  self service Collaborati  platform Performanc  management Knowledge reposi tory Learning and developmen  News and communicat ion Bran  shopMoneta  benefits Non - Moneta  rewards Recognitio   effort Flexibility Oppo rtunitie sGamifica tionSociai BPMEmploy  walletCollecti  ideation Persona  Persona Persona  Persona  Empi oyees People oriented architecture  Building the technology platform Building  sound technology platform requires significant expertise, structured approach and innovative thinking.  should increase productivity  enabling sociai collaboration  help accelerate innovation, generate ideas, enhance interactions, and improve access  organisation-wide expertise, thus eliminating -inventing-the-wheei syndrome. The platform should allow -the- access   functionalities through mobile and smart devices, thereby allowing the organisation  fully capitalise  its digitai presence.  ensure participation, platforms should have self service functionality that wili keep the employees engaged and connected. The platform should have advanced analytic capabilities for the   gain  strategic lever  monitor key  metrics and make informed decisions before concerns become crisis. Technology enablement  PwCPwC  employee engagement platform: Evolution PwC  employee collaboration platform evolved through  number  cycles and  stili -going. Earlier Initially,  just aggregated different systems and provided links   single place with most  static content. Employees needed  search through the entire portai  find relevant information.  moved  Later,  evolved into  more personalised interface which showed information and dashboards relevant  the individuals. Functionalities like the   system were integrated into the same platform. This  where the persona based approach was applied. Based  the employee classification, personalised sections were introduced. Employees could intuitively notice the sections which were relevant  them. Case study Employees who believe that management  concerned about them   whole person - not just  employee - are more productive, more satisfied, more fulfilled. Satisfied employees mean satisfied customers, which leads  profitability. Anne . Mulchahy, CEO, Xerox Corporation People oriented architecture 15We have evolved further The success  the platform majorly results from the continuous cycle  revision and employee feedback.   not just any other portai,    platform that the employees use for the engagement  provides and the benefits that follow   result. Once the base collaborative features were decided, focus shifted  innovative ideas  engage the employees. The Ideate section encourages employee participation  bring out new business models and  gather opininons from the employees. This supports the totai rewards programme where people are rewarded with both moneraty  weli  non monetary rewards. The collaboration platform Spark has introduced  number  concepts from gamification  terms  earning points, receiving badges and competitiveness  comparing  employee with his  her peers. The conceptof sociai BPM  stili evolving but PwC  collaborative platform provides sections for wikis  forums where employees can collaborate  their deliverables.   not necessary  choose  single concept  implement the totai rewards strategy, neither  choose ali concepts.   essentiai that whatever concept  chosen,  should fit itself with the services offered and should  personalised according  the employee groups.  PwCNotes People oriented architecture   PwC People oriented architecture 19About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcContact Debdas Sen Executive director partner, Technology Consulting Leader   44o4 64o4debdas. sen . pwc. com Pradip Bhowmick Executive director partner  Strategy and Architecture Leader   44o4 428opradip. bhowmick . pwc. com Saunak Ghoshai Associate director Digitai Strategy Leader   44o4 3239saunak. ghoshai . pwc. com Acknowledgements Technicai content and storyboardingRohit Ray Sayandeb Mitra Saunak Ghoshai Design Abhishek Kakar www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - September 2o13 People oriented architecture. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India