Title: pwc_exploring-new-horizons
Date Published: 2013-12-11 12:05:02+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_exploring-new-horizons.pdf
Word Count: 5543
Sentence Count: 478
Average Sentence Length: 18.74

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
financiai: 95
rurai: 69
insurance: 52
banks: 45
industry: 41
need: 40
bank: 40
services: 37
modei: 37
india: 37
wili: 34
products: 34
credit: 32
business: 30
inr: 30
areas: 29
mobile: 29
ooo: 28
inclusion: 28
million: 26

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Exploring new horizons Financiai percolation  the rurban www. pwc.  Contents Setting the context  Financiai percolation  the rurban  Exploring various business models p1o The chosen path p16  PwC Exploring new horizons 3Chairman  message The history  our times wili  remembered  one  the most challenging phases for the financiai services industry. Given the constantly changing business environment, with frequent changes  regulations, the industry  struggling  build sustainable models. Penetration  financiai products and services has remained concentrated  the metros and Tier  and Tier  cities, without percolating down  the smaller towns and cities and the rurai belt. The good news  that while there   huge need for services  these segments,   just that these customers are not aware  the right products and the right channei  leverage for the products.  has been observed that  most cases,   the product which  the success factor for building   resilient business modei  these areas.  weli-acknowledged fact  that technology  needed  scale  operations  these rurai markets. Market players need  capitalise  the benefits that technology has  offer, making investments  the right pockets  opportunity. The cost-benefit analysis  using technology   facilitator and enabler needs   pushed out  customers and market players alike.   also important for this industry  invest  the right partnerships  alliances  move forward with long strides. Partnering with industries such  telecom  FMCG should   weli-thought out strategic decision  penetrate -banked areas. Ali stakeholders, the banks, insurance companies, NBFCs, mutuai fund companies, regulator, government, last mile agents need  work  tandem  build  sustainable distribution chain. There are significant learnings from other countries that can  replicated  the Indian market. These need   critically assessed and built upon  take the growth  the financiai services industry  the next levei.   Jayaram Chairman - CII 2nd Financiai Distribution Summit 2o13 and Joint Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.  PwCThe 2o11 Census data for India states unacknowledged urbanisation  one  its major findings.  threw interesting results, forcing policymakers and industry experts  take notice  shifting urban patterns. Census towns,  term coined  explain hitherto ignored urbanisation trends accounts for almost   the urban growth  the last decade, with large inter-state variations.  census town  categorised  because farming has been entirely replaced with other formai  informai sources  livelihood with   more  the male population depending  non-agriculturai sources  livelihood. Interestingly, between 2oo1 and 2o11, India added about , 5oo such towns, earlier classified  large villages,  the urban growth story. The validity  such ground-breaking data forces   -examine the stark demarcations  rurai and urban, accepting the prominently present rurban regions. This acknowledgement  previously ignored spurious urban growth promises major policy implications. The growth experienced  such towns and the rurban region  India has been rapid and haphazard, unevenly spread across the country  topography.  fact, two-thirds  this region  concentrated  just six states--West Bengai, Kerala, Tamii Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh,  that order.  the geographicai spread intrigues, the characteristics associated with such spurious growth are astounding. Rurai income grew   much faster pace between 2o1o and 2o12 than  previous years, according  the provisionai results  the 68th round  the consumption expenditure survey  the Nationai Sample Survey Office NSSO. While the average annuai growth  monthly per capita consumption expenditure MPCE between 2oo5 and 2o1o  reai terms stood  .   per the 66th round  the survey,  grew  around  between 2o1o and 2o12.  value terms, the rurai MPCE picked  from 927.  INR  the 66th round  , 281.  INR  the 68th round. The income gap between rurai and urban India  declining. While the 66th round survey carried out  2oo9- showed that the MPCE  urban India was double 1oo.  than that  rurai areas,  came down  .   the 68th round survey. Rising income levels coupled with  surge  consumer awareness translate  higher spending levels and disposable incomes. Massive urbanisation wili result  the increase  disposable income from about , ooo INR  2o1o  , ooo INR  2o16. This  likely  result  higher consumption and needs for financiai products  order  enhance savings and investments. Non-agriculturai sources  livelihood translate   steady flow  funds leading  increased savings. These need   channelised and hence the demand for varied financiai products beyond the metros. The increased consumption  lifestyle products and the ability  ape urban lifestyle has led  shifting demand patterns.  variety  goods ranging from smartphones  automobiles and various electronic gadgets are now commonplace  rurai India.  India  manufacturing sector moving away from cities? ,  study conducted  Ejaz Ghani for Harvard Business Schooi details the urbanisation  India  manufacturing sector.  observed that while smali informai industries were moving from rurai areas  cities, formai industriai sector units were shifting  the rurai areas. Examples include Nokia and Hyundai. What  these phenomena have  store for the financiai sector? The good news  that  considerable amount  unchannelised savings exists beyond the metros  semi-urban and rurai areas. Financiai institutions are yet  explore these markets and translate the savings  these people into strong wallet share for themselves. Penetration  rurai and semi-urban markets has tili now been largely driven  the regulator and the government. Though, never before has financiai percolation seemed more economically viable, multiple roadblocks exist  these regions  terms  inadequate infrastructure, low levels  financiai literacy and lack  strong distribution channels. Financiai providers  not seem  identify any viable opportunities from tapping these markets, given the cost  reaching the rurai areas.  address this,  change  mindset that perceives financiai inclusion   profitable business modei and not just   sociai obligation  required. Rurai and semi-urban financiai services  the fastest growing financiai services sector with  potentiai  approximately , ooo crore INR  revenues  2o15. This could potentially mean banking 7oo million people  developing innovative and profitable operating models  fuei further growth.  addition, products need   tailored  suit the needs  these groups and their associated peculiarities. Products sold  the urban markets cannot  replicated  these markets.  considerable amount  investment  also required  choosing the correct agent  agent network  access these markets and then training them. Setting the context Exploring new horizons  The curve ahead While the financiai sector needs  gauge the existing opportunity appropriately, the onus also lies with the regulator and government policies  clear roadblocks associated with infrastructure and various other restrictions that often lead   lukewarm response. The industry today needs  take  step back and think how  can make inroads into the rurai market and make its distribution modei sustainable  the long-term. Financiai inclusion   huge project and cannot  undertaken   single provider working  its own. Partnerships and alliances are necessary  order  collaborate and seek answers  reach the unbanked. Banks and other financiai providers wili need  partner with technology service providers, mobile operators, FMCG companies, postai department,  wili need  identify other alliances which could work out  viable revenue-sharing modei.  fact,  series  such models can  modified   continuai basis  tweak peculiar topographicai  socio-economic constraints. This partnership channei should  used not only  provide remittances, but should gradually progress  offer credit, pensions, insurance and savings products  drive value  the distribution chain.  PwCCountry name  adults having  account   formai financiai institution  adults using mobile money  the last year  adults who have taken  loan from  formai financiai institution  the past year  adults who have taken  loan from family  friends  the past year  adults with  credit card  adults paying personally for health insurance Brazii       China       India       Indonesia       Japan  -    - Kenya       Mexico       South Africa         -    -   -    - Globai Findex Database, 2o11 The term financiai inclusion propels ambiguity and measuring the depth and coverage  percolation might   hurdle.   apparent that the financially excluded constitute  significant share  the population especially among low- income groups. The Ali India Rurai Credit Survey AIDIS 2oo2 survey, showed that 111.  million households had  access  formai credit and  million households were indebted  moneylenders. The recent Arjun Sengupta Report  financing enterprises  the unorganised sector has pointed out that only .  million out   million units  this sector with  investment  less than , ooo INR have received credit from commerciai banks. The 2oo2 survey also showed that lower the asset class, income and place  residence, higher the degree  exclusion. The Invest India Incomes and Savings Survey 2oo7 survey showed that .   households had borrowed from institutionai sources and .  had borrowed from non-institutionai sources. There  hence clearly  section  the population that lacks access  finance and  crowded out  the credit markets. The regulator, government and the industry players need  reinforce their efforts  improve financiai access, especially for smali businesses and individuai households.  the first three years  the Financiai Inclusion Plan Aprii 2o1o  March 2o13 come   end, here   snapshot  the progress made: Financiai percolation  the rurban Banking outlets  villages have increased  nearly , , ooo from , 694 outlets  March 2o1o. About , 4oo rurai branches have been opened during this three-year period compared   reduction  about , 3oo rurai branches  the last two decades. Nearly 1o9 million basic savings bank deposit accounts BSBDAs have been added, taking the totai number  BSBDA  182 million. The share  ICT-based accounts has increased substantially. The percentage  ICT accounts  totai BSBDAs increasing from   March 2o1o    March 2o13. With the addition  nearly .  million farm sector households during this period, .  million households have been provided with smali entrepreneuriai credit   the end  March 2o13. With the addition  nearly .  million non-farm sector households during this period, .  million households have been provided with smali entrepreneuriai credit   the end  March 2o13. However, future financiai inclusion plans need  address major issues, financially viable regulations that attract private investors promoting percolation beyond the mandatory limits and seamless functioning  the regulators and the stakeholders.  India, only   the population have deposit accounts Nine per cent have credit accounts with banks 145 million households are excluded from banking Only  have debit cards Less than  have credit cards Less than   the population has any kind  life insurance and .   the population has non- life insurance coverage Exploring new horizons 7The Insurance Bili, AADHAR, cash transfers: 2o13, the year that was Although 32o million AADHAR cards have been issued, less than  million accounts have been linked. This has far outstripped the bank accounts. Such banking glitches would mean  huge roadblock  the success  the Unique Identity Programme and resultantly Direct Cash Transfers. State-Levei Bankers Committee SLBC Convenor Banks were advised  - ordinate with government functionaries for the implementation  Aadhaar-enabled payments. Banks need  expedite the process  opening bank accounts  camp mode and seeding  accounts with Aadhaar numbers. The status  the roli-out  Aadhaar-enabled payments   regular agenda item for discussion  SLBC meetings  part  financiai inclusion and Electronic Benefit Transfer EBT implementation. The Direct Benefit Transfer was rolled-out   districts  the first phase from  January 2o13, and has been extended   districts from  July 2o13. However, the pace  which such benefits are being extended indicate the need  pace the process  financiai percolation. The 2oo6 Annuai Policy witnessed the term financiai inclusion for the first time ever, asking banks  open -frills accounts for ali those wanting access   bank account. Along with rurai credit and equitable access  ,  also need  consider the insurance sector. Increasing the FDI limit    domestic insurance companies from the earlier  wili boost employment opportunities, sends  positive signai  overseas investors and wili help India rein  the current account deficit  the short-run. The insurance sector needs  capitai infusion    , 5oo crore INR over the next five years, with the life insurance industry requiring , ooo crore INR and generai insurance companies , 5oo crore INR. Such infusion wili help the industry benefit from the variations  scale and increase the insurance cover beyond the metros. What  need from the regulator   mid- way approach that addresses customer concerns while keeping  tab  profit margins. Squeezing the sector  its profit share wili lead the percolation process  collapse, doing more harm than good  consumers. Initiatives taken  the government and the regulator The Indian financiai system has been characterised   duai formai-informai structure giving rise   gap that promotes the grey. Nominai interest rates have been tightly regulated for decades leading  arbitrage profits through trading these  the informai system. How for instance, are microfinance institutions which charge interest rates  around  per annum any better than moneylenders? Severai such concerns translate  only   Indians above  years  age having  account   formai financiai institution. The rurai-urban distribution  quite skewed with   rurai Indians and   urban residents having  account with  formai institute.  achieve universai coverage and reach the maximum unbanked adults, the government and the regulator have taken  few initiatives. The first FIP has seen about , 7o1 rurai branches, , , 355  outlets, , 478 other modes, 1o3.  million totai  -frili accounts registering  increase  .   NFAs. 2o11- 2o12. Other figures that point towards increased penetration  the rurban include 932.  billion INR  outstanding balance, .  billion INR  overdrafts, 119.  million transactions through ICT-based  outlets, .  million INR  KCC credit and .  million GCC INR  credit  recorded   March 2o12. According  the World Bank  Globai Financiai Inclusion Index Globai Findex database, only   women  India admit  having  bank account. Per capita credit  the case  women   lower than  the case  men. The Bharatiya Mahila Bank  thus  welcome initiative that predominantly serves women and hopes  achieve  more equitable form  financiai distribution. The government has made financiai percolation  the rurban and universai financiai coverage  development policy priority. The RBI has   September 2o13 announced  -member committee  develop  comprehensive monitoring framework  track the progress  financiai inclusion and deepening efforts   nationwide basis. The Committee  Comprehensive Financiai Services for Smali Businesses and Low-Income Households includes representatives from leading industry players, RBI directors and government representatives.  wili review existing strategies and develop new ones that address specific barriers  progress and encourage participants  work swiftly towards achieving fuli inclusion and financiai deepening, consistent with design principles while developing viable business models for executing these strategies.  PwCRurai credit across states Commerciai banks and institutions need  treat the process  financiai inclusion   viable and potentially profit-generating business modei. Currently, Indian banks are required  give   their loans  weaker sections  society and farmers, among others.  achieve these twin goals,   cruciai  dissect the diverse nature  rurai credit dispersion across states. RBI data  rurai credit outstanding for each district  the country  astounding. Although for Bihar   whole, rurai credit outstanding per capita  833 INR,    low  371 INR per person  Madhubani district, 433 INR per capita  Darbhanga district and 443 INR  Sitamarhi.  other words, rurai credit outstanding per person  Madhubani district  less than half the average  Bihar and one-tenth  the average  Andhra Pradesh. Another example  Nagaland  Mon district where rurai credit outstanding per head   low  225 INR.  Manipur  Ukhrui district, 14o, ooo people  the rurai areas share the princely credit outstanding   lakh INR. There  wide variation within states. For example, while Saharanpur district  Uttar Pradesh has per capita rurai credit outstanding  , 387 INR that for Ghazipur,  its eastern border,  less than one-third  that,  971 INR.  Maharashtra, while the figure for Pune district  , o31 INR that for extremist-hit Gadchiroli  , 1o1 INR.  Chhattisgarh, extremist-haunted Dantewada district has  per capita outstanding  824 INR  rurai credit. The country  east gets far less rurai credit. The data shows extensive inequality  the distribution  rurai credit within the country pointing towards topography   major factor. Accessing finance  the north east  more difficult that  mainland India. Analysing the reasons for existing wide variations, addressing related concerns and tailoring products and models that ably adapt  the peculiar characteristics wili help conserve profit margins leading  sustainable financiai percolation. Exploring new horizons 9Roadblocks: How   overcome them? The NPS and the RSBY:  the industry listening?  Nationai Advisory Councii NAC working group had recommended  sociai healthcare enterprise modei for the delivery  universai health coverage UHC named the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna RSBY. One  the significant recommendations  the formai integration  insurance schemes within the public health sector,  move experts maintain wili further skew the healthcare landscape  favour  private providers. States have been asked  try  least one and   three comparative models  district-levei pilot projects  arrive  the most relevant and cost-effective one. The Pension Fund and Regulatory Development Authority PFRDA received the status   statutory authority with the PFRDA Bili 2o11 being cleared. The Nationai Pension System NPS was designed  bring the informai workforce predominant  the semi-urban areas under the pension umbrella making   weli regulated product spanning the length and breadth  the country. Low surplus incomes underline the need for liquid money especially given the seasonai nature  -farm activities. Hence subsequent amendments  the bili ensure timely withdrawals. Such tailored initiatives  the government that work  partnership with private players fasten the speed  which access  capitai and structured savings percolate  those who exist  relative isolation. Regulator Lack  collaterai   concern  the creditors catering  the rurai and semi- rurai areas, alongside the lack  capacity  fulfii ali KYC norms. The RBI has notified the paperless electronic authentication,  electronic know-your-customer eKYC process provided  the Unique Identification Authority  India UIDAI   valid. The customer can now authorise the bank  access user demographic records registered and stored  the UIDAI  Centrai Identity Data Repository. The bank wili then receive details from  after matching the customer  biometrics scan with the Aadhaar number provided. Government Financiai Inclusion Plan: 2o13- 2o16 Financiai literacy and product awareness  indispensable  financiai inclusion.  should make people better informed, better educated and more confident, able  take greater responsibility for their financiai affairs and enable them  play  more active role  the market for financiai services.  facilitating environment physicai and sociai infrastructure for inclusion needs   created. This involves improving connectivity through roads, bridges, power and information  weli  communication networks. Industry Branch and branchless services  ensure the reach  DBTs, there exists  need for outlets, either through brick- and-mortar branches  the branchless mode,  ali villages across the country. For this  succeed,   important that quality services are provided through the new ICT-based  outlets. Therefore,  intermediary low-cost brick-and-mortar structure  required between the base branches and  locations. This wili provide timely support   outlets, ensure close supervision   operations and give them credibility and increase people  confidence   services. Hence, banks have been advised  plan for  increase  the proportion  branches that cover unbanked areas. The industry has been advised  consider setting  financiai inclusion centres,  act  centres exclusively focussing  customers serviced through BCs. Further,  assist banks achieve the  mandate, banks have been advised  open smali intermediary brick-and-mortar structures between the base branch and the unbanked villages. The industry needs  concentrate  creating  eco-system  ensure efficient delivery  services, efficiency  cash management, redressai  customer grievances and closer supervision   operations.  further encourage banks and various other industries they have been advised  consider frontloading prioritising the opening  branches  unbanked rurai centres over  three-year cycle -terminus with their FIPs. This  expected  facilitate quicker branch expansion  unbanked rurai centres. Industry players also need  come  with innovative solutions such   outlets, other modes such  kiosks, off-site rurai ATMs, mobile vans, etc.    resolve last-mile connectivity issues. Understanding the psyche  the rurban consumer and creating mass yet customised products  cruciai  success. . . there   mismatch  the lending products offered  financiai institutions which are largely aimed  agriculturai  other productive purposes, whereas the actuai need  the consumer   meet family emergencies. Obviously, administrative costs are  huge contributor  the high interest rates, currently standing  .   outstanding loans. The high rate  non-performing assets NPAs emerging from this section  also  dampener commercially. - engineering the cost  serve  leveraging onto technology wili reap the benefit  large-scale variations. Other industries such  FMCGs and telecom have managed  make considerable -roads  the rurban. Forging the right partnerships with the government and regulators and adopting best practices from these industries wili assist the financiai services industry delve deeper into the evading rurban market profitably.  PwCThe regulatory institutions and the policy designs  the country stili revolve around physicai capitai driving growth. The services sector contributes  excluding construction  the gross domestic product compared with   manufacturing, resultantly large investments are being made  intangible assets. Financiai institutions are stili driven  the physicai asset-based lending. This despite the fact that the biggest assets  enterprises today are their economic competence, including brand equity, region-specific human capitai, networks joining people and institutions and organisationai know-how that increases enterprise efficiency. While the RBI  about  issue the list  provisionai banking licences, the  applicants can  classified into five categories: private companies, non- banking financiai companies NBFCs, broking houses, government entities and others. Clearly, one part  the licensing policy has    help, facilitate and allow firms  evolve. Transforming  NBFC into  bank   naturai process  evolution,   firm from one stage  existence  the other. This process cannot   standalone process and needs policy aid. The fact  accentuated with  NBFCs among the  entities who have applied for banking licences.  meet the objective  financiai inclusion, policies need  work  tandem with the regulators and the industry  develop  sustainable modei that effortlessly achieves last-man-connectivity profitably. While issuing guidelines for the grant  new banking licences, the RBI stated that financiai inclusion wili   important criterion  assessment. New banks wili  required  establish  least ,  quarter,  their branches  places with less than  population  , ooo. The business modei provided  the applicants for achieving financiai inclusion wili   cruciai parameter  the assessment matrix.  for their part, industry players need   come  with innovative business models that are capable  continually evolving and adapting the challenges that the rurban poses.  fulfili the extremely cruciai criteria  financiai inclusion, operating models need   different  nature. MFIs such  Bandhan Financiai Services and Janalakshmi Financiai that have  considerable presence have applied for bank licences. These institutions wili have the added advantage  door--door connectivity and customer trust  place. Where  the banks stand? This September, ICICI Bank launched its Branch  Wheels programme   part  its financiai inclusion plan. The programme   mobile branch with  ATM that offers basic banking products and services such  savings accounts, loans, cash deposits, withdrawai, account balance enquiries, statement printing and funds transfer collections, among others. The mobile branch with  ATM wili  operated  specific timings  the day  pre-identified, unbanked villages through  van that wili  stationed  specified locations.   equipped with  GPS tracking system, laptops with  connections, LED ,  safe,  printer,  public announcement system,   lamp that detects forged cheques,  note counting-cum-authentication machine that identifies fake currency notes and  unique low-weight ATM. Two ICICI Bank officials and  guard wili manage the mobile branch with ATM. The nearest branch  the bank wili act  the parent branch  the branch  wheels, routing ali the cash and transactions for . Exploring various business models Such industry best practices suggest two things. One, the distribution modei  place  urban markets cannot  replicated  rurai markets, because this segment  the population has been structured differently with needs and requirements which differ from the urban segment with  different set  challenges. Two, innovative solutions tweaked  address area-specific concerns are  win- win situation for both,  institutions  weli  consumers. Branch banking: Banks are probably the only financiai institutions which have  significant brick-and-mortar presence  the rurai and semi-urban areas  compared  other financiai institutions such  insurance companies and asset management companies. The network  public sector banks  quite weli established  these areas and can  effectively used  seli financiai products and services  the under-banked. Branch correspondent  the branch facilitator modei    modei: Since 2oo6, the RBI has permitted banks  employ business correspondents  order  expand their reach and provide financiai products and services  rurai and under- penetrated areas. The number  BCs has steadily grown  number over time, with  significant increase  the number  transactions undertaken  them. Growth  BCs Source: RBI, 2o13Number  BCs Number  transactions through BCs  lakh Exploring new horizons 11With banks steadily appointing  increasing number  BCs over time, the number  villages that have come under the banking net has risen from , ooo villages  2o1o  around 211, ooo villages   December 2o12. Banks are free  leverage post offices, NGOs, self-help groups, MFIs, farmers clubs, panchayats, community based organisations, - operative societies, etc  act  their BCs. The people residing  the rurai areas fali into the low-income category and need smali savings products  meet their needs  security, easy access and minimum documentation. They also need micro credit facilities  the form  term loans and overdrafts which wili help them meet their working capitai requirements. Banks extend these facilities  the BCs  that they can further connect  these customers  the grass-root levei  opening accounts, collecting loan applications, doing KYC, etc. Typically,  rurai areas the biggest obstacle lies  terms  geographicai locations which are not connected  proper infrastructure. There   huge cost involved  travelling long distances and waiting  long queues  avaii banking facilities. Hence, these BCs need   provided with  technology platform  facilitate these transactions and tide over operationai hassles. Serving   trusted interface between the bank and the customer, the  has the ability  facilitate transaction  smali amounts and encourage healthy savings behaviour  these customers. Moreover, the  garners the trust  these people easily  someone from their own community. This modei has however met with its fair share  challenges. The  modei  Brazii Background: The financiai inclusion initiative  Brazii has been fostered  the  modei, the credit--operatives and bank service outposts, out  which the  modei has been observed   the most successfui.  Brazii, the number  bank branches per 1oo, ooo adults rose from .   .  between 2oo6 and 2o11, complemented with  rise  the number  BCs from .  establishments per 1oo, ooo adults  2oo6  113 establishments per 1oo, ooo adults  2o11. The popular correspondents  Brazii are post offices, lottery outlets and supermarkets. Success factors: Favourable regulatory reforms  the financiai services sector have acted  catalyst for the growth  the industry. What seem  have driven the success  the  modei  Brazii are specific regulations concerning space and equipment for bank branches and agreements related  payroli  bank employees. The regulatory framework also ensures repayment favouring access  credit for workers. Regulations have been directed solely  increase transparency  prices, services and  standardise operations. Correspondents are required  have  mandatory certification  financiai inclusion, and are subject  anti-money laundering rules and due diligence. Also, Brazii allows considerable leeway  handling cash  non-financiai firms  compared  other countries.  significant move  the government entails  decision  route ali payments  sociai benefits through the state owned bank Caixa Economica Federai, leveraging the fact that this bank has the largest network  correspondents  the country through its partnership with lottery houses and retaii stores. There has also been strong politicai support towards increasing financiai reach. Overali,  can comment saying that differentiai regulation for correspondent banking has been significantly responsible for the success  this modei  Brazii and has been instrumentai  tailoring suitable products for lower income groups. What can  done better: The array  products and services offered  correspondents can  increased with  inclusion  insurance and pension products. This network can also  used optimally  provide  basic levei  financiai education  the rurai customers. Brazii  PwCChallenges Low volume  transactions: The success  the  modei  heavily dependent  the transaction volume, which  compared  urban areas, has failed  pick  momentum. Another challenge faced  the BCs  that they are not incentivised enough  remain  this business.  has been estimated that most  these BCs earn less than , ooo INR per month.  per the current commission structure, the agents are entitled   percentage  the amount transferred. This naturally implies that the BCs would want  gain high-value transactions and ignore customers who make low-value transactions, defeating the purpose  the  modei. Dormant accounts: Close  1oo million -frills accounts have been opened  the BCs  operation, out  which only around  have been found   currently operationai. Reason for this has been  mass opening  these accounts  banks  order  meet their financiai inclusion targets, and subsequently very little promotion  the   the bank  use these accounts frequently. The account holders need   made aware  the transaction process, limits  volumes, etc. Insufficient cash: Rurai areas receive  large amount  remittances from urban areas and are known   remittance heavy.  often happens that BCs end    situation  liquidity crunch and are unable  provide funds  the beneficiary  the required time. This puts the reputation  the   considerable risk. Operationai issues: Multiple inefficiencies exist with the integration   technology platforms into the bank  platform. Software glitches, unavailability  power back-ups and server downtimes are some  the daily issues that the BCs need  deai with. Sub optimai operating modei between banks and BCs: For instance, government payments DBTs are being leveraged  create viability  the system. There  inequitable distribution  revenue. While the banks make money  the float income, the BCs who take  the  the ground execution are not adequately compensated. The success  the  modei  also dependent  the support provided  the base branch services especially for cash management, documentation and redressai  consumer grievances. Insuring rurai India: Best practices The Life Insurance Corporation LIC   first--its-kind initiative has launched the bima gram   insurance village under the LIC brand. For  village   branded,  least   the households   must have  least one LIC policy and 1oo new policies should come  from the village   financiai year  which the village    declared  bima gram. Once  gets the branding, the insurance company wili plough back part  the premium earned from the village  build infrastructure, both physicai and soft-sociai,  the form  hand-pumps, solar power supply house schools, etc. The cost  such wili however not  more than   the premium income received during the year from policies issued, subject   ceiling  , ooo INR   financiai year.    bima gram, the village should   rurai centre  per the definition  the IRDA with  minimum population  , ooo. The number lapsed policies issued prior  the current financiai year should not  more than   that time when the village    declared   bima gram. LIC believes that rurai insurance has always been big business and having  branded concept for  should work weli. With private players flocking  the urban areas, the rurai market  vibrant and the logistics  revenue wili   favour  the LIC. The affordability  purchasing  policy   rurai area and the premium payable wili depend  the individuai  paying capacity for different policies. However, insuring rurai India comes with its own set  challenges which are similar  the ones faced  banks. Product design: One  the biggest challenges  deployment  the right product  these customers  line with their requirements. Trust  intermediaries: Another factor which  important for selling policies  these low-income groups  credibility. Intermediaries need  gain the trust  these customers  convince them  purchase insurance cover. Private sector insurance players have tried  bring  some amount  innovation  products and operating mechanisms, within regulatory requirements. This has been done  introducing -payment models, health screening, tele-medicine, mobile enrolments, internet kiosks, weather based insurance, rainfali index insurance, etc.  study has found that there  inconsistency among insurance players  defining micro-insurance. Some insurance players categorise their products  rurai products while some term them  micro insurance.  generai, insurance players find  difficult  position their products within the IRDA guidelines. Making  sum assured  , ooo INR  health insurance cover viable for the low-income group does not make much business sense. How  private insurance player works Background: Market research undertaken  the company indicated that low-income groups were not really averse  purchasing insurance. They were just apprehensive about tedious documentation, payment  regular instalments and need  money during exigencies.   product allows the flexibility  pay instalments  and when they have money, with   minimai penalty, and the freedom  withdraw money when they require   any emergency, these customers wili  more attracted towards buying insurance policies. Hence, the first step  selling  the rurai segment  designing  product tailored  their needs. Approach  distribution: This insurance player put  place  locai sales force  cater  the needs  these customers. The modei  such that while advisors work   commission basis, sales managers work with  variable component linked  the number  policies sold.  simple product was designed   sold  this market, which does not require the customer  make monthly, quarterly  annuai premium like other insurance players. The other aspect was convenience with this product being sold over the counter  smali locai retaii stores.  adopted  multi-pronged distribution channei engaging  many partners  possible  the grassroot levei. Leading insurance player Lack   tied-agency concept, does not incentivise financiai service providers  invest  their agents. Exploring new horizons 13Add- insurance increases deposits  2o11, Microensure launched  savings- linked product with  bank  Ghana that had been experiencing low account balances and limited transactions. Although the bank had over 1oo, ooo depositors, more than  held  balance  less than  USD. Each  these customers actually cost the bank about .  USD per month  administrative costs. The bank wanted  provide  incentive  customers  increase their savings balance. Microensure and its partner StarLife Assurance launched  insurance product tied  the savings accounts. Depositors who held  minimum balance   USD each month were entitled  free life insurance with benefits    18o USD. Clients with  balance  12o USD were entitled  life insurance for their spouse and children  weli.  the first five months after product launch, the bank  deposits increased  . Deposits from clients with balances below  USD increased  2o7  five months  clients saved more  access the free insurance. This increase, along with anecdotai evidence from interviews with depositors, suggests that many customers saved more   result  the insurance cover. Micro-insurance  Indonesia Background: Payung Keluarga , which means Family Umbrella  Bhasa,   credit life product that Allianz Life Indonesia specifically designed  meet the needs  micro borrowers who take loans from microfinance institutions.  October 2o12, six years after its launch   pilot product  Indonesia, Payung Keluarga successfully reached the mark  one million active insured. There are more than , ooo MFIs, serving  million smali entrepreneurs   population  25o million. Allianz spells out  considerable amount  business potentiai  market not only credit life products but also other micro-insurance products  these areas. Success factors: The product itself acts   key differentiator which  addition  providing life insurance cover, offers over  combinations  possible benefits, dependant   single product and system platform. The interesting thing  note  that   the MFIs who get  decide  the benefit package from these multiple options, which they are allowed  further customise  customer group. Another factor   attractive compensation scheme.  distribute   MFIs, Allianz Indonesia uses two approaches direct selling  staff and secondly, through tied agents and brokers. The commission   high    gross written premium for tied agents for the first five years  the policy, free  any training, collection  servicing obligation  the agent. Another aspect  this compensation scheme  that once  particular MFI has been secured   distribution channei,  provides the MFI benefits  the form   mark- premium  weli  profit- sharing. This concept  profit-sharing  new  the donesian market and  perceived favourably  the MFIs   instills  sense  ownership and contributes  sustainable servicing  the product. Operations are fairly simple and efficient, with   loans not requiring any kind  underwriting.  complex documentation process and the use   single monthly report accessed  ali parties streamlines administrative hassles. Claims payment process takes around three  five days, with  rejection rate  below . Lessons learnt: The first thing that needs   kept  mind  that credit life  just  entry point. The rurai population has the need for smali business insurance, health insurance, savings related insurance, etc and these products need   pushed into the market  grow this base  customers. Products need   designed keeping customers  mind. They need   flexible enough  attract customers  the first place. After introducing  modular version  the product   2oo8, gross premium picked  from , ooo  865, ooo GBP  2o12. Another criticai factor here  business relationship management between Allianz and MFIs,  secure  long-term relationship with partner MFIs. Statistics show that after the introduction   dedicated BRM function  2o11, partner persistency picked  from     2o12. Also, the correct MFI needs   identified for the product  the very onset. Once the scheme starts selling, many MFIs are hesitant  make changes  the structure  the product and benefits provided. Source: Micro insurance innovation facility, ILO 2o13 Indonesia  PwCNBFCs teach some lessons Relative  various industry stakeholders, NBFCs have been the most successfui  reaching and capturing  share  the rurai markets  India. They have managed profitable operations through  different cost- -serve modei. This combines  deep understanding  the locai consumer with proximity  them and the use  technology handheld POS  facilitate transactions and enable productivity. NBFCs  India such  Shriram Transport Finance Mahindra and Mahindra Financiai Services have been successfui  catering  the needs  the rurai economy. They provide  low-cost business modei and last- mile connectivity, two cruciai parameters  succeed  the rurban. Also, leveraging  their customer reach network helps them compensate for costs that are higher than banks. Utilising these financiai intermediaries along with banks  achieve financiai inclusion needs   the plan. Franchisee modei: Large players have adopted the franchisee modei  extend their geographicai reach and have appointed smali franchisees  seli these products.  share  profit  provided  the franchisee.  and MFIs: Some NBFCs appoint business associates which help  enhancing reach without opening physicai branches. The advantage  this case  that the appointed intermediary  weli-versed with the locai market and needs  the customer. Recruiting locai talent: NBFCs have been successfui  penetrating remote areas  the grassroot levei  hiring and training from the locai pooi. This serves   huge cost advantage  weli  helps understand locai market requirements. CEO   leading NBFC Focus has been  protection plans with  smali ticket size, affordability and high demand. Most industry players were  the view that  the current scenario, the insurance product  the most viable, with higher margins  compared  other products like mutuai funds. NBFC viewpoint The gold loan business has been  pathbreaking innovation  the rurai markets and yielded multiple benefits  financiai institutions. CEO viewpoint Interestingly,  has been observed  one branch opens   particular under- penetrated area, other players immediately establish their own branches  that area, leading that market  saturation point. The Indian Post .  association with the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited BSNL, the Indian Post launched the Mobile money transfer service wherein money can  transferred from one post office  the other. This service  available  , ooo post offices spanning  states, percolating down  the village levei  weli. . Agent based models have succeeded  making some amount  progress with companies like FINO, EKO,  Little World, etc. Challenges faced  NBFCs Heavy dependence  banks for funding: NBFCs rely  banks for most  their funding, especially true  the case  smaller NBFCs. Out  every 1oo INR that banks  India lend,  INR goes  the NBFCs. Shortage  funds and entry  banks  the retaii lending segment have adversely affected profitability.  businesses where both banks and NBFCs have  presence, there are limited business opportunities for NBFCs  flourish. They have  high cost  funds  comparison  banks primarily due  the fact that NBFCs  not have access  refinance like banks. Banks have access  multiple organisations for refinance needs, . . RBI, NABARD, EXIM, SIDBI, etc while NBFCs stand   disadvantage  they can rely  banks  the capitai market for raising capitai. Securitisation  loans: This  also one  the major concerns that NBFCs  India face. Bank  the mobile: Other alternatives for the industry  consider Another channei being exploited  banks  reach the under-banked population  India  capitalising  the mobile boom. Mobile network operators have been able  successfully penetrate remote areas and gain significant volume  their usage  places where there   bank branch  ATM. Hence,  makes sense for banks  partner with telecom operators  order  reach this segment  the population. There are 929.  million mobile subscribers  India   which belong  rurai areas, signifying that there  immense opportunity  leverage this channei and increase reach  financiai products. MNOs seli through  multi-layered distribution umbrella which consists  the main distributor, stockists and retailers who stock other goods apart from mobile top-ups. The MNO modei has been successfui  countries such  Africa, but its take-off  India remains   assessed. The use  this network  India has been limited  remittances and the benefit has not managed  extend  other financiai products. This modei has the capacity  create awareness among customers and increase levels  financiai literacy while effectively utilising mobile banking services. Currently, Kenya leads  offering financiai services via the mobile with -Pesa, attributing two-thirds  the adult population use this channei. Exploring new horizons 15The enabling regulatory approach  the Centrai Bank  Kenya, has resulted  mobile financiai services being used   million people via  network  more than , ooo agents while  Tanzania,   the adult population  using mobile financiai services through 138, ooo agents. Mobile banking  Bangladesh Background: Prior  the mobile banking initiative kicking off  Bangladesh, only   the 16o million people  Bangladesh had bank accounts. However,   this population was estimated  possess mobile phones. Bangladesh has performed favourably  terms  growing the banking system and reaching out  the unbanked population. Statistics indicate that .   the adult population have access  credit. Bangladesh has  large micro-finance market with the number  agents , o93 exceeding the number  branches , 961 and ATMs , ooo. The mobile financiai services market    stage where providers are trying  leverage technology and achieve scale  operations, improve the strength  agent networks and acquire new customers. Currently, mobile banking clients have reached .  million   September 2o13. Success factors: The modei for the structured guidelines for the mobile financiai services market released  Bangladesh Bank  2o11 was agent centric. The criticai factor  this modei was building trust  mobile banking with the tag   bank attached   added more credibility. What seemed  have worked  this market are the partnerships between banks and mobile network operators  take financiai products  the under-penetrated areas.  the mobile market  Bangladesh reaches  mature stage  the development cycle,  becomes criticai for banks  forge the right alliance  partnership. For example,  subsidiary   SME based locai bank, signed  with  MNO for access through the USSD. The distribution modei was similar  that   MNO but proved   more effective  way  establishment  their brand and tying  with various telcos  ensure availability  their services across networks. Another factor was upgrading the payment system with online automated interbank settlement  paper based and electronic fund transfers. Regulatory guidelines have been found   flexible and more consultative  approach avoiding being prescriptive  nature. There  constant dialogue between the telecom regulator and Bangladesh Bank, the understanding being that the telecom regulator wili oversee operations  telcos network services  the bank telco partnership while Bangladesh Bank wili regulate the financiai side  the mobile phone based financiai services  the bank-telco partnerships. Kenya Tanzania Bangaldesh  PwCThe government, regulators and industry players The regulator plays  criticai role  encouraging and facilitating distribution  under-banked areas. The IRDA regulations set rurai insurance targets for each company. These require that   ali life insurance business should  generated from the rurai sociai sector  the first financiai year. This should increase annually  reach   the sixth financiai year. For generai insurance,   insured premium  the first financiai year should  from rurai sociai business, increasing annually    the sixth year. The RBI has relaxed branch authorisation  the extent that banks  not require prior permission  open branches  centres with  population  less than  lakh, which  subject  reporting.  further step  the opening  branches  rurai areas, banks have been mandated  open  least   their new branches  unbanked rurai centres. DMAT  insurance policies announced recently  the IRDA, wili prove    revolutionary step  favour  pushing products out  the rurai markets. Industry viewpoint The regulator should give  proper turnaround time for the market, and  less restrictive  nature  promote better distribution. However, given the multiple variables  play,   cruciai that the government and its policy design, regulators and industry benchmarks work  tandem  generate  sustainable modei beneficiai  consumers and the industry. Creating such  viable modei cannot  achieved  initiatives that function  isolation. Rather, incorporating various requirements and developing  sustainable solution  the route  capture the rurai market. Industry players need adequate incentives  facilitate financiai inclusion beyond the mandatory. Both, the government and the regulator need  create  enabling ecosystem  facilitate the industry body   successfui.  cannot just   mandate  the industry   functioning that often takes place  isolation. The three stakeholders need  work  perfect rhythm with each other, understanding various constraints  achieve the goai  financiai percolation for the rurban.  the end  the tunnei? The need for the regulator and the government  work  tandem with industry cannot  emphasised enough. The policy framework and execution should weave  considerable incentives for the industry, prompting them  pro-actively bear the torch  financiai inclusion. For instance, the government needs  create  enabling infrastructure that holistically encompasses the NPS, RSBY, NREGA and DBT under one umbrella. Coupled with this, physicai infrastructure that accentuates last-mile connectivity needs    place  save administrative costs.  enhance the percentage  insurance  rurai India, passage  the Insurance Bili  cruciai. Industry players need understanding  the nuances relating consumer behaviour  these regions  align their needs and preferences income, consumption and risk patterns with product development. Innovative use  technology  allowing players worldwide  reach low-income groups. The SMAC sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud concept comes  play  look  device enabled sales forces, STP and paperless branches, using new collaboration techniques  -create products with customers and better insights  individuai customer risk profiling. Ali this wili lead  enhanced productivity with lower costs. Forge the right partnerships:  single player  the key-element  the value chain. Therefore   imperative for financiai institutions  get into partnerships  enhance reach and capability  serve this section  the society. Partnerships can  leveraged  various levels, with RRBs  leverage their infrastructure, with FMCG companies  leverage  their rurai initiatives. . . the Shakti Aamma initiative  HUL with centrai and state governments  their  initiatives and the distribution  welfare scheme payments  rurai households and with telecom players  piggyback  their penetration levels. Recent numbers estimate that   the new branches  the totai branches have been opened  semi-urban and rurai areas. This showcases that banking services are reaching these areas  much faster pace than  used   few years ago. Deposits and other saving schemes are the stars and the starting points  the rurai markets. However, these markets not only face  technology challenge but also the business modei challenge. Ali stakeholders need  address the specific nuances and then leverage existing demand. Existing banks are not able  fulfili the demand because   difficult  create  new business modei within the existing business modei. The new banks about  receive their licences might  able  address this   far more optimai manner through innovative operating models. Bad loans from the agriculture sector have grown    the fiscai year 2o11-, higher than the  growth  such loans from non-agriculturai sectors. Traditionally, loans  agriculture have always shown higher NPAs than non-farm loans. This trend  evident since 2oo4 with exceptions during the fiscai years 2oo9 and 2o1o. The union government had waived , ooo crore INR worth  farm loans  2oo8. Dissected from any angle, these numbers weaken the confidence  private players  the rurai market widening the gap between the formai and informai. Policy initiatives designed  weave these into the existing welfare structure need    place. The banking sector has not really addressed partnership models with telecom firms especially  terms  low-cost channels such  unstructured supplementary service data USSD and revenue sharing. However, the new RBI Governor has promised  work out  way for telecom companies and banks  forge partnerships. This may open  the mobile banking space   wider scale than before. Interface related innovation  also key with respect  transactions. Understanding consumer behaviour and inculcating those  delivering the product and the way   delivered  cruciai  the success  any modei. The chosen path Cohesion  the government, regulators and industry players Exploring new horizons 17References Globai Findex, World Bank, 2o12 Nationai Sample survey, 68th round Census  India, 2o11 Various working papers  the RBI and RBI statistics AIDIS survey, 2o1o www. icicibank. com  PwCAbout CII The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry- managed organization, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo members, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo enterprises from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai industry bodies. CII charts change  working closely with government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialised services and strategic globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  key issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civii society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  ali. With  offices, including  Centers  Excellence,  India, and seven overseas offices  Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organisations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the  internationai business community. Contacts Confederation  Indian Industry Western Region 1o5 Kakad Chambers, 132  Annie Besant Road Worli, Mumbai - 4ooo18 Maharashtra, India Phone:   2493179o Fax:   24939463 2494 5831 Emaii: ciiwr cii.  Website: www. cii.  Exploring new horizons 19About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcContacts Manoj  Kashyap Leader, Financiai Services Direct:  o22 6669 1888 Emaii: manoj. . kashyap . pwc. com Gaurav Dev Burman Associate Director, Financiai Services Direct:   6669 1276 Emaii: gaurav. burman . pwc. com pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  124 - Dec 2o13 CIIDistributionSummmit. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India