Title: pwc_exec-summary
Date Published: 2013-02-06 16:37:48+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_exec-summary.pdf
Word Count: 1208
Sentence Count: 105
Average Sentence Length: 18.54

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
financiai: 36
banks: 23
services: 18
market: 17
business: 17
inclusive: 16
new: 16
products: 14
segment: 13
needs: 12
markets: 11
dna: 9
modei: 9
different: 9
bank: 9
wili: 9
need: 8
government: 8
cost: 8
customer: 8

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

PwC4Executive summary The future lies with those companies who see the poor  their customers.   Prahalad Background The globai emerging middle already accounts for .  billion people globally and  expected  represent  combined annuai market  excess   trillion USD  2o21. Presently, 47o million people  India belong  the emerging middle income group, earning    USD per day16, and about   the households are financially excluded1.  India, this market  expected  cross  trillion USD  2o2116. Organisations which build capabilities  this segment can  beyond their country  borders and compete  other such markets. The way forward For India   1oo financiai included, ali the constituents need  play their part. The government, through policies must protect customers interest along with helping financiai institutions build profitable business models. Banks need  move from looking  inclusive markets   cost  business  growth opportunity. New and innovative smali enterprises addressing inclusive financiai markets must  supported and those with  strong distribution network need  partner with banks  help deliver financiai services. Today  the future that  Prahalad referred ,  organisations innovate and try  make available goods and services  the inclusive markets, defined  the middle  lower economic market segment. Providing  bouquet  financiai services  these markets   profitable business opportunity waiting   realised. DNA modei for inclusive financiai services5Government policies for inclusive financiai markets The government has the keys  unlock the inclusive financiai market through policies, mandates, regulatory requirements, subsidies and taxes. Joseph  Stiglitz, Nobei laureate said, Even though market forces help shape the degree  inequality, government policies shape those market forces. Governments cannot achieve their objective  financiai inclusion only through diktats. They need  help financiai institutions create viable business models, whilst protecting the interests  the poor. They have  foster innovation  allowing smali and new players  participate,  flexible  allowing more banks  operate  this segment, incentivise banks  create  different operating modei for this segment and allow market forces  operate. The Indian government has taken many positive initiatives recently, through its various departments the Ministry  Finance, the RBI, the UIDAI, the Department   and the state governments. Transfer  welfare subsidies overali estimated  3ooo billion INR  which 15oo billion INR  presently cash based, called cash transfers  bank accounts through Aadhaar wili provide the much-needed impetus for banks  open accounts and treat this customer base seriously. While this  expected  happen over the next few months,  wili impact only  districts out  the 6oo  the country. The reality  that there are  established last-mile delivery channels  the ground levei.   estimated that more than   the 12o, ooo outlets are inactive and     14o million -frills account are inactive. Only organisations which have  already established network have the capability  deliver the last mile for financiai services,   sustainable way. The government needs  foster collaboration between banks and organisations that have the distribution network, through  tiered partnership modei-telecom and consumer companies for villages  larger population, and postai departments, microfinance companies and -operatives for villages with lesser population. Merely opening accounts and facilitating welfare benefits electronically are not enough. The usage  accounts and other financiai services needs   ensured. One way  doing this   providing incentives for  short period for the usage   frills accounts.  new policies issued  the government, clarity needs  replace ambiguity. Innovative programmes like the pilot  the UIDAI  -KYC and the RBI  meaningfui financiai inclusion  Ernakulum district  Kerala are good, but not enough. The government needs  encourage innovation through smaller enterprises, . . regionai banks like Krishna Bhima Samruddhi Locai Area Bank, Business Correspondents BCs, enterprises with technologies for low-cost Core Banking Solutions CBS and last-mile innovations. Some  this wili  possible with the passing  the Banking Laws Amendment Bili 2o11. The priority sector lending target     for agriculture, SMEs, education and housing, while good  intention needs   reviewed    line with the contribution  the agriculture sector and infrastructure required. The needs  the agriculturai community are more than just financiai credit, and these needs have   addressed concurrently. Support  required more for creating producer groups, sorting, grading and cold storage facilities near the farm-gate. The large Kisan Credit Card portfolio that banks are holding needs   closely reviewed for non-performing assets NPA. Affordable insurance and pension financiai products through reduced distribution cost are required  the community. Banks -shift  DNA required for profitable business  inclusive financiai markets Banks, tili recently, did not focus  the inclusive market segment,  there was  incentive   . Growth objectives could  achieved  servicing the urban, economically advantaged segment. Today, with some segments  this market showing signs  saturation, and stringent regulatory requirements, banks need   more strategic  the inclusive markets business and move from cost  business  growth opportunity. PwC6To build  profitable business serving the underserved requires banks  make  paradigm shift  their DNA. Different DNA New org. structure products Align new partners : Different DNA Low-cost airlines and Walmart were created with  different DNA, and similarly banks need  different DNA  address the lower economic segment. New ways  doing things wili drive the low cost high volume business. This may mean carving out  completely new subsidiary  changing the DNA  not  smali task. The profile  people has   different, and customer needs have   satisfied  completely new ways. Products have   designed for high volume and each element  cost has   brought down   fraction  the originai. The main elements  costs are  follows: Nearly, -   costs for  rurai branch and indirect cost   customer service provider CSP impacted  high attrition rates    . Present CBS costs which range from   2oo INR per account per annum  too high for such large numbers   frills accounts. There are few technology providers who offer  low-cost CBS for this segment  the market. Innovative enterprises can explore this unmet need for low-cost CBS     INR per account per annum. The cost  rent which can  reduced through shared services and  hub-and-spoke modei with Business Correspondent  outlets The cost  customer acquisition    15o INR per customer and can  brought down   fraction,  the CSP  already servicing the customer through -selling pre-paid airtime  similar services. : New organisation structures and new products Private sector banks have different units taking care  the liability and asset segment  the business . . loans  microfinance companies through the financiai institutions unit, gold loans and smaller value loans through different units, and -frills account through  different unit  the bank. Public sector banks have  financiai inclusion unit  the head office and the circles  rurai branches are not accountable  them for business. These disaggregated organisation structures  not serve the needs  the bank for the inclusive market segment. New organisation structures  get operationai leverage wili help banks address this segment. For financiai products    success,   important  understand the needs  the customer.   the need  have money  send their children  college,   take care  them  their old age? What are the cash cycles that the sugar farmer goes through versus the cotton farmer? For the purchase  financiai products, there   price-trust inversion.  the beginning, trust  criticai for adoption, demonstrated  customers who are prepared  pay prohibitive prices  the hawala  transfer money, primarily because they trust him. Initially, banks, BCs and CSPs must focus  building trust,  price  not  consideration. Once there  trust   new product and CSP, usage wili increase and over  period the product gets commoditised. This  when price sensitivity starts coming into play. Insights  the middle  lower income market segment and designing innovative products  meet their needs  criticai for success. Learnings from successfui traditionai financiai products like chit funds and gold loans are valuable. Internationai examples  innovation are the Jipange Kusuve  -Pesa which   lend  save modei. DNA modei for inclusive financiai services7A: Align new partners for this market Banks find  difficult  reach the last mile due  staff constraints and expenses. They have been partnering with many BCs.  fact, some banks have     partners. Managing  large number  partnerships   challenge and banks wili have  optimise  manage better.  scientific basis for growth  Tier  and Tier  villages population  less than 1oooo must  based   tiered partnership modei. Partnerships have   made with BCs who have  viable business modei themselves. . . -seller  pre-paid airtime can add financiai services  their bouquet  products, and make the business modei more viable. Organisations with  strong distribution network and the skills  manage this network can deliver financiai inclusion. Banks must also partner with telecom and consumer companies for villages with  higher population, and postai departments and microfinance and -operatives                               . Telecom operators seem  have  naturai advantage  partners with banks for mobile financiai services,  they have the technology and access  customers and data.  believe that mobile financiai services wili take off more  developing economies rather than developed economies,  -Pesa has proven.  the developed economies, internet banking using computers  already ubiquitous and there   reai motivation  change this  mobile banking unless there   completely new way  managing money.  developing economies  the other hand, internet banking  not  option and mobile banking wili give customers what mobile phones gave people who could not get  fixed telephone line. Telecom operators must seize this second opportunity  drive innovation  providing mobile finance, leveraging  their vast network and proven strengths  manage this network. Telecom operators can make  profitable business  financiai services for inclusive markets  adopting the following: Use their experience and access  data  drive innovative financiai products Represent the bank for not just remittances and savings products but the entire bouquet  banking products Seli the concept  financiai services,  educate the retailer and customer Manage the distribution channei aggressively for financiai services, just the way the telecom channei was managed  marketing schemes for customers and trade promotions This   time  for the government, financiai services organisations, telecom companies, and grass-root organisations  make history  providing financiai services   sustainable way  the inclusive market segment  India. Examples for inclusive financiai services markets The Centrai Bank  Philippines - Bangko Sentrai  Pilipinas - has set   dedicated unit that specialises  new technologies. While  allow the market  lead,  cannot afford  regulators,  get left behind,  have  stay very close  the innovators just  make sure things don   out  hand. The target market are people who may not have had extensive experience  use  financiai services and are also  that regard potentially vulnerable, said the Deputy Governor . The percentage  population who have bank account for the bottom   some  the Asian countries  comparatively high, . . ranges from    for Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Thailand, whereas   only  for India. Banks such  the SBI, Yes Bank and BCs such  Eko and Suvidhaa have proved that domestic remittances are  profitable business.  Yes Bank, totai value  remittance between August and December 2o11  8oo.  million INR approximately and fee income  .  million INR approximately27. New products must take learnings from the successes  traditionai products such  chit funds, postai savings and newer innovations like the lend--save modei  Kenya  Jipange Kusave -Pesa. Non-bank financiai institutions NBFCs with gold loans, vehicle loans and now low-income housing loans has shown the way  build profitable and low risk assets for the inclusive markets. The Sarva Shakti Suraksha  Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance,   customised insurance cum savings product for members  -operatives.  PwC34Contacts Jamuna Rao Verghese Advisor, Inclusive Market Financiai Services jamuna. . verghese . pwc. com Harsh Bisht Executive Director, AdvisoryPwC India