Title: pwc_tax-glimpses-2012
Date Published: 2013-02-25 14:07:32+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_tax-glimpses-2012.pdf
Word Count: 27749
Sentence Count: 2261
Average Sentence Length: 19.71

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
tax: 496
india: 322
act: 216
company: 209
transfer: 205
section: 189
shares: 188
held: 181
services: 173
capitai: 168
assessee: 168
case: 146
taxpayer: 142
business: 125
income: 125
pricing: 122
indian: 115
foreign: 113
investment: 112
tribunai: 109

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  Tax Glimpses - 2o12  are delighted  present our annuai publication, Tax Glimpses 2o12.  are pleased  bring you  brief analysis  the pertinent judgments and noteworthy regulatory developments  corporate tax, mergers and acquisitions and indirect tax which took place  2o12. This publication also incorporates  listing with weblink connect wherever available  various PwC Thought Leadership initiatives such  news alerts, newsletters and articles published during 2o12. The year 2o12 saw much activity  the judiciai, legislative and administrative fronts. The following developments were particularly significant:  landmark judgement was delivered  the Supreme Court  the case  Vodafone Internationai . The Union Budget introduced tax reforms, such  the introduction  Generai Anti-Avoidance Rules GAAR, Advance Pricing Agreements, retrospective amendments relating  indirect transfers  shares and royalty and provisions relating  domestic transfer pricing. The Direct Taxes Code, 2o1o was postponed. The Parthasarathi Shome Committee Reports  GAAR and the indirect transfer  shares were released.  Chidambaram assumed charge  Finance Minister.  Finance Minister, Chidambaram issued  cali  reduce the rigours  the GAAR,  make them more taxpayer friendly. Draft guidelines and rules were released  the CBDT relating  Advance Pricing Agreements, employees provident fund guidelines, the valuation methodology for computing fair market value under section   viib  the Act, draft tax accounting standards, sociai security agreements, tax information exchange agreements,  name just  few.  hope you enjoy this issue.  always  look forward  hearing from you. Foreword Ketan Dalai Joint Leader, Tax and Regulatory ServicesShyamai Mukherjee Joint Leader, Tax and Regulatory Services Corporate Tax Personai Tax Mergers and Acquisitions Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory ContentsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains  Depreciation  Tax exemptions planning  Gift  shares  GAAR 36Corporate law developments  Internationai Update  Case laws 39Case laws  Circulars and Notifications 52FEMA  SEBI 7oTaxability  Employees secondment expenses 2oRoyalties   Capitai gains  Permanent establishment  Representative assessment  Circulars and notifications 16Fees for technicai services  Presumptive taxation  Taxability  Turnkey contracts  Corporate tax Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate taxPwC 5Royalties  Embedded software Payment for supply  software embedded  hardware not taxable  'royalties' even after retrospective amendment Facts The assessee,  Finland-based company,   leading manufacturer  advanced telecommunication systems and equipment GSM equipment which are used  fixed and mobile phone network.  was maintaining  liaison office   weli   subsidiary,  India Nokia India Pvt. Ltd NIPL.  had supplied GSM equipment  various telecom operators  India,   principai--principai basis. Installation  this equipment was undertaken  its subsidiary, NIPL, under independent contracts with the Indian telecom operators, while its  was carrying out advertising and other preparatory and auxiliary activities  permitted  the Reserve Bank  India RBI. The tax officer  held that the  and NIPL constituted permanent establishments   the assessee  India.  further held that the software embedded  the equipment supplied  the assessee would  taxable  royalties under section     the Act,  under Article   the India- Finland tax treaty. The Commissioner  Income-tax Appeals CIT  and the Income- tax Appellate Tribunai the Tribunai rejected the   order taxing the payment towards software embedded  equipment  royalty. However,  treated NIPL  assessee    India. High Court order Existence    India The Tribunai observed that the  had not carried out any business activity for the assessee  India and its role was limited  assisting the assessee  preliminary and preparatory work. The  had obtained permission from the RBI and the latter had not found that there was any violation  the rules  the part  the . Thus, the  did not constitute the assessee    India. The assessee contended that the Tribunai  conclusion that NIPL was    the assessee was based , and the result , various factuai errors  the order  the lower authorities and was therefore  erroneous conclusion. The revenue authorities denied this contention. The matter was returned  the Tribunai for fresh consideration. The Tribunai would also adjudicate  the attribution  income. Taxability  software payment  royalties The  rejected the revenue  contention that,  account  retrospective amendments  the definition  royalties  the Finance Act, 2o12 . . which stipulated that  consideration for  transfer   user right  software would  royalties, the question  use   copyrighted article  actuai copyright does not arise  the right  use  piece  software itself   part  the copyright and the existence  any further right  make copies  irrelevant. The  also relied  the decision  the case  Siemens Aktiongesellschaft 2oo9 31o ITR 32o Bom  which  was held that the amendment made  the Act cannot  read into the tax treaty. DIT  Nokia Networks  -7oo--2o12 Dei Based  similar facts,  the case  DIT  Ericsson Radio System  -769--2o11 Dei,  was held that  taxable event which related  the supply  equipment took place outside India since the title  the equipment, along with the associated risks, was passed   the buyer outside the country. Therefore,  could not  held that, when  supplied the equipment  which the software was embedded the assessee had rendered technicai services which could  deemed  accrue  arise  India. Furthermore, the equipment installation contracts undertaken  the assessee  subsidiary  India were independent, since the assessee was not deriving any profit out  .  business connection arises merely because the installation contractors were the assessee  subsidiaries and therefore  there was  business connection, the question    did not arise. Royalty  Duration  preparatory services   included when computing the period for determining whether there     India Facts The applicant,  tax resident  Singapore, entered into  contract with Indian Oii Corporation Ltd IOCL relating  the installation   terminai for the discharge  crude oii from sea vessels   onshore tank. Another contract was also  effect, under which Larsen Toubro   appointed ONGC  carry out installation and construction work which was sub- contracted  the applicant. Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC6Issues The applicant sought  advance ruling  the taxability  the payments received under the above two contracts and contended the following: Both the contracts were for installation work . . construction and mining work and, hence, were covered  the exception provided  Explanation   section   vii  the Act. The applicant did not make available  IOCL  IOCL technicai knowledge, skills, know-how. Hence, the income cannot  considered  fees for technicai services FTS under section   vii  the Act. Therefore, business income would only  taxable  there was the existence     India. Since the installation work continued  India for less than 183 days and the applicant did not have any office  premises  the country,   was  existence  India, under the terms  Article   the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement the tax treaty between India and Singapore. The applicant also contended that the activities carried out under the contract with   were connected  prospecting, extraction  production  minerai oils and,  the absence     India, there would   liability under the provisions  section 44BB  the Act. AAR ruling The Authority for Advance Rulings AAR observed that,  the case  IOCL, since only   the receipts were received for installation work and the rest were related  the use  the vessels  carry out the installation work, the contract was not for installation work. Even though  was  composite contract, IOCL was paying for each  the items separately.  the case  Ishikawajma-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd  DIT 2oo7 288 ITR 4o8 ,  was held that where the consideration  each portion  the contract  separately specified, the receipts are independently taxable  the basis  the source and nature  the receipt.  the case  State  Madras  Richardson Cruddas Ltd 1968  STC 245 ,  was held that mobilisation and -mobilisation expenses relate  use  equipment for undertaking installation work. Hence   taxable  royalty under Article     tax treaty.  the installation work was ancillary and subsidiary  the use  equipment and the enjoyment  the right  use that equipment, the payment for installation work was taxable  FTS under Article     the tax treaty. Further,  per the contract with  , the scope  work included various preparatory services, including surveys, drawings, engineering, etc. These services  went beyond installation work and included pre- and-post installation services. Under Article    the tax treaty,  enterprise shali  deemed  have     provides services  facilities,  connection with exploration, exploitation  extraction  minerai oils, for  period  more than 183 days   contracting state. The duration during which such preparatory activities  facilities are carried out cannot  excluded when calculating the duration     India under Article    the tax treaty. Since the activities  the applicant, including the preparatory services, extended beyond 183 days, they constituted    per the deeming provisions  Article    the tax treaty and were liable  tax under section 44BB  the Act. Globai Industries Asia Pacific Pte Ltd  DIT --AAR-2o12 Outsourcing contracts Outsourcing contracts transferred   Indian company not taxable Facts The assessee-  Ltd,  -based company, entered into various business process outsourcing BPO contracts outside India related  rendering  services  various non-resident companies. The contracts were further sub- contracted  WNS India,  Indian company. The assessee took over   Ltd  business, including the BPO contracts, and sold them  WNS India for  consideration. Consequently, WNS India became solely responsible for the obligations under the various BPO contracts. The revenue authorities held that since the BPO contracts were  revenue generating asset, consideration for its transfer was taxable  income  the hands  the assessee. Furthermore,   the consideration  respect  the BPO contracts was attributable  the assessee  services   India,  per Article   the India- tax treaty, since the assessee had  service   India  relation  management services rendered    WNS India. Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC7Tribunai order The BPO contracts were executed with non-resident companies outside India. Therefore, they were capitai assets situated outside India. Hence, consideration  the transfer  the BPO contracts  assets cannot  treated  income deemed  accrue  arise  India.  regards the applicability  Article   the tax treaty,  was observed that the service   India had  involvement  the acquisition  the BPO contracts  its subsequent transfer  WNS India. Therefore, consideration received against such contracts cannot  treated  income attributable  the assessee    India. Hence, the consideration was not taxable  the hands  the assessee, either under the provisions  section   the Act  under Article   the tax treaty. WNS Globai Services  Ltd  ADIT 2o12-TII--ITAT-MUM-INTL Course fee Income   foreign university from distance learning course are not royalties Facts The assessee company was engaged  marketing, promotion and provision  certain ancillary services  Tower Innovative Learning Solutions Inc TILS, USA,  wholly-owned subsidiary  Corneli University Corneli, USA. The assessee also assisted  registering students for courses offered  Corneli and  collecting the combined fees. TILS entered into  affiliate agreement with the assessee for marketing, promotion and other specified ancillary services relating  the courses offered  Corneli  India. The affiliate agreement provided the assessee with  limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sub-licensable right and licence  market, promote and provide certain ancillary services connected with the offering and distribution  distance learning courses  Corneli. The assessee made  application under section 195   the Act requesting  nii tax withholding certificate  the grounds that the payment made  Corneli was business income and,  the absence  TILS having    India, such payments were not taxable. After considering the agreement entered into between the parties, the  held that the assessee was liable  withholding tax  the payment made, under the terms  Article   the India-USA tax treaty, since the payments made  TILS were  the nature  royalties. The CIT  upheld the order  the   the grounds that the payments made for the right  use the TILS trademarks, service marks, logos, etc. , together with the associated licence, and the limited non-exclusive, non-transferable, non sub-licensable right  offer and distribute courses  TILS, were  the nature  payments for the right  use  trademark   copyright. Tribunai order The assessee was assigned the role  marketing the courses, assisting  the registration process, collecting combined fees and providing infrastructure  enable registered students  access the course content   website. Corneli owned the right , title and interest  the courses. According  the end-user agreement, the students received the right  access the course materiai  using their unique login  and the assessee did not obtain the use  right  use any copyright  literary work. Also,  was not for the use  right  use  patent, trademark, design, plan, secret formula  process, etc. The affiliate agreement related  the pooling  resources  way   agreement  which the respective roles and responsibilities had been assigned and the fee sharing  the parties were set out. Therefore, the payment made  TILS  the assessee was not for any kind  service but was for apportionment  fees. This could not considered  royalties  defined under Article   the tax treaty. Hughes Escort Communications Ltd  DCIT -158-ITAT-2o12 Dei Subscription Payments received under  software distribution agreement wili  taxable  royalties Facts The taxpayer, Citrix Systems Asia Pacific Pty Ltd Citrix,  resident  Australia, entered into  software distribution agreement with  Ltd for the distribution  computer hardware and software. Under this agreement, the orders placed   Ltd were directly delivered  end-users who downloaded the software from Citrix  servers. The price paid for the software was paid   Ltd, after deducting its own commission.  Ltd also facilitated the Citrix subscription programme with the existing customers. This programme involved  package  support services, including product version updates. Ali transactions between the applicant and  Ltd were   principai-- principai basis. The issue before the AAR was whether payments made   Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC8Ltd  Citrix under the software distribution agreement were   taxed  royalties under section   the Act and under the India-Australia tax treaty Australia treaty. AAR ruling The AAR ruled that the payment received  Citrix under the software distribution agreement was taxable  royalties under the Act and under the Australian treaty since  granted the right  download and receive version updates. The AAR observed that when  owner sells software  also sells the right  use the software.  rejected the applicant  contention that the transfer was   copyrighted article and not   copyright and held that the payment was  the nature  royalties and  Ltd was required  withhold tax  per the Australian treaty. The AAR placed reliance  the rulings  the cases  IMT Labs India Pvt. Ltd. ,   287 ITR 45o, Airport Authority  India,   3o4 ITR 216, Millenium  Software Ltd AAR . 835  2oo9 and the Karnataka   decision  Samsung Electronics  Ltd -696-- 2o11 Kar,  which  was held that payment for software wili  taxable  royalties. Citrix Systems Asia Pacific Pty Ltd   --AAR-2o12  ITO  People Interactive  Pvt. Ltd. -129-ITAT-2o12, the Mumbai Tribunai held that payments for hosting  website cannot  treated  royalties. The taxpayer was the host   website which provided information about matrimoniai alliances  payment   subscription amount.  received information technology services from  company called  Inc. The Tribunai held that the payment made   Inc was business income and not royalties. Also,  the absence     India, this payment was not taxable. Reliance was placed  the decision  the case  Asia Satellite Telecommunications Ltd ---2o11 Dei where  was observed that when equipment was not under the controi  the assessee, payments made for receiving services were not royalties under the Act  the India-USA tax treaty. Therefore, tax withholding was not required under section 195  the Act,  was held  the Supreme Court   the case   Technology Centre . Ltd 2o1o 327 ITR 456 .  ONGC  ITO -846-ITAT-2o12 Dei, the Delhi Tribunai held that payment  the assessee for accessing information from  website was royalties, both under the Act and the India- tax treaty. The assessee was engaged  the business  prospecting for hydrocarbons  augment India  oii security. Accordingly,  participated  oii exploration, production and development activities for which  subscribed  the website   company,  Ltd. This subscription was  the nature   non-transferable licence, possessed  the assessee, for downloading the information. The Tribunai held that information available  the assessee was licensed information. Accordingly, subscription fees paid  the assessee were covered  the definition  royalties under section   vii  the Act and Article    the India- treaty. Accordingly, the subscription was liable  withholding tax.  this regard, the assessee placed reliance  Wipro Limited -7o1- -2o11 Kar and differentiated this from the ruling  the case  Dun and Bradstreet Espana  2oo5 271 ITR  Kar. The AAR,  the case  Acclerys ,   -119-AAR-2o12, has held that payments received   non-resident for the sale   software application  end-users through  independent reseller  India were taxable  royalties under Article   the Indo-Japan tax treaty.  light  the ruling  the case  Citrix Systems above, the AAR ruled that software cannot  used without the use  the copyright embedded  . Accordingly, the payment for such use wili  constitute payment  royalties and wili  chargeable  tax. Telecasting Payment  non-resident for satellite -linking and telecasting programmes not royalties  fees for technicai services Facts The assessee,  tax resident  India,  engaged  the business  the production and distribution  internet media.  entered into  agreement with Shan Satellite Public  Ltd SSA,  tax resident  Thailand, for relating  satellite -linking and telecasting programmes. The expenditure incurred  this respect was claimed  broadcasting and telecasting expenditure.  addition, consultancy charges were also paid  the assessee  SSA. The  considered the payments made  the assessee  SSA  constitute fees for consultancy charges within the meaning  FTS  defined  Explanation   section   vii  the Act. The  held that since there was  failure  the part  the assessee  withhold tax under section 195  the Act from the payment made  SSA,  was liable  disallowance under section     the Act.  appeai, the CIT  held that the assessee company had received  highly sophisticated technicai service from SSA and the payment for such services was taxable  FTS under section   viii  the Act read with Explanation   that Act. The CIT  also held that the uplinking  downlinking  the signals for broadcast was possible only  use  the scientific equipment owned  SSA and the amount paid for such use was alternately chargeable  tax  India  royalty  per Article   the India-Thailand tax treaty. Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC9Tribunai order Where the assessee had  controi over  possession  the equipment,  cannot  said that the payment made  SSA was for the use  right  use any industriai, commerciai  scientific equipment. Hence, this payment was not taxable  FTS under section   vii  the Act.  this regard, reliance was placed  the decision  the case  Asia Satellite Telecommunication  Ltd 2o11 332 ITR 34o Dei,  which  was held that while providing transmission services, the controi  the satellite  the transponder always remains with the satellite operator and the customers are merely given access  the transponder  capacity. Since the customer does not utilise the process  equipment involved  its operations, the charges paid cannot  treated  royalties under the tax treaty. Therefore, the payment related  the provision  the facility constituted SSA  business income and was covered  Article   the India Thailand tax treaty. There   need  take recourse  Article   the tax treaty with Thailand which covers only those items  income not covered expressly  any other article  the tax treaty with Thailand. Hence, the payments  SSA were not liable  withholding tax under section 195  the Act and the disallowance made under section     the Act was   deleted. Channei Guide India Ltd  ACIT -662-ITAT-2o12 Mum Based  similar facts, the same view was taken  the case  Times Globai Broadcasting  Ltd  DCIT 2o12-TII--ITAT-MUM-INTL  which  was held that payment made   non-resident towards transponder hire charges cannot  treated  royalties since the process  amplifying and relaying the programmes was carried out through the satellite which was not situated  the Indian airspace. Therefore,  process had taken place  India.  the above cases, the Tribunai observed that the assessee cannot  held liable  withhold tax   result  subsequent amendments made  the Act which have  retrospective effect. Shrink-wrapped software Income from sale  shrink-wrapped software not taxable  royalties Facts The assessee,   tax resident,  engaged  distributing software  end-users through its distributors  sub-distributors  India, under  distribution agreement which also contains  end-user licence agreement. The assessee did not offer the income from the sale  shrink-wrapped software  tax. The tax authorities held that the end-user was granted  licence  use the software. Hence, the amount was taxable  royalties under Article    the India-USA tax treaty.  was also held that the decision  Delhi   the case  DIT  Ericsson  -769--2o11 DEL was  the context  the sale  equipment  which software was embedded, and was not  case  the sale  shrink- wrapped software. Hence, the decision  that case  was not applicable  the assessee  case. Tribunai order The Mumbai Bench  the Tribunai, relying  the cases  Dassault Systems ,   -126-AAR-2o1o and Ericsson  -769- -2o11 DEL, held that income from the sale  shrink-wrapped software was not taxable  royalties   result  the distinction between copyright and copyrighted article. Reliance was placed  sections    and   the Copyright Act, 1957, under which only reproduction and adaptation for the purpose  commerciai exploitation was said    copyright and therefore consideration  this regard considered  royalties. Accordingly, consideration paid merely for right  use cannot  held   royalties. DDIT  Solid Works Corporation --ITAT-2o12 Mum   similar case, ACIT  Sonata Information Technology Ltd -683-ITAT- 2o12 Mum, the Mumbai Tribunai, relying  the decision  the case  Solid Works, held that the payment made   resident for the purchase  software from  resident company was not considered  royalties and, hence, not liable  tax withholding under section 194J  the Act. The above two rulings were  favour  the assessee. However, the Karnataka ,  the case  CIT  Synopsis Internationai Old Ltd -182- -2o1o KAR, held that the sale  shrink-wrapped software  taxable  Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC1oroyalties, following the decision  the case  CIT  Samsung Electronics  Ltd -696--2o11 KAR. The assessee,  resident  the Republic  Ireland, entered into  technicai licence agreement TLA with its  parent, Synopsis  SUS. Under the TLA, SUS was the owner  the copyright  the software and granted  licence  the assessee  commercially exploit the intellectuai property rights  certain geographies. SUS also required the assessee  enter into  end-user licence agreement with the customers  protect its rights  the product and documentation, and the intellectuai property  the software. The tax authorities taxed the income from the supply  software received from Indian customers  royalties under section     the Act. The Tribunai reversed the order  the . The assessee contended that that the consideration was for off-the-shelf software,  the nature   copyrighted article, and there was  transfer  any right  the copyright. The  held that the intention  the provisions was not  exclude the consideration paid for the use  the copyrighted article.  constitute royalties under the Act,   not necessary that there should   transfer  exclusive right  the copyright but  transfer  any interest  the right and payment for  grant   licence constitutes royalties under the Act. Thus,  was irrelevant that the consideration was for the transfer  copyright    copyrighted article. Accordingly, even  there was  transfer   exclusive right  copyright, transfer  intellectuai property was equivalent  transfer   copyright and the receipts were taxable  royalties. Right  use know-how Consideration for right  use know-how for  limited period taxable  royalties  the absence  any outright transfer Facts The assessee,  Swedish company, entered into  agreement with Atlas Copco  Ltd  March 1985  supply technicai know-how for manufacturing screw type air compressors and also  render technicai assistance  manufacturing activities. Under the agreement,  lump sum consideration was payable  three instalments  the assessee  Atlas Copco  Ltd. The assessee contended that the lump sum consideration received was capitai  nature and, hence, not taxable. The  contended that the lump sum consideration was taxable  India  royalties under the terms  Article   the India-Sweden tax treaty. The CIT  and the Tribunai confirmed the order  the .  order The  noted that the assessee had received the money for providing  right  use know-how for  specified period, and there was  outright transfer  the know-how.  held that  the assessee retained ali the rights  the know-how for itself and  was only the limited right  use  which was provided under the agreement, then the consideration was nothing but royalties received  payment for the right  use the know-how for  limited period.  was held that the payment  allow  right  use know-how constitutes royalties under the  terms  Article   the India-Sweden tax treaty which existed  that time. Atlas Copco   Sweden . CIT ---2o12 BOM Film distribution rights Receipts for granting film distribution rights not royalties Facts The assessee,  non-resident company,  engaged  the production and distribution  films.  entered into  agreement with Warner Bros Pictures  Pvt. Ltd. WBPIPL relating  the granting  exclusive rights distribute cinematographic films  WBPIPL,   payment  royalties. The WBPIPL withheld tax  the royalties amount. The assessee claimed  refund  the tax return  the grounds that consideration for sale, distribution and exhibition  cinematograph films  excluded from the definition  royalties under section     the Act,  weli  under Article    the India- tax treaty. Hence,  such  consideration  not taxable. The  assessed the royalties income  applying Article    the India- tax treaty  the rate  . Tribunai order The Tribunai noted that Explanation    section    excludes payment received for sale, distribution and exhibition  cinematographic films from the definition  royalties. Further, the term royalties defined  Article   the India- tax treaty does not include payment   consideration for the use  any copyright  literary, artistic  scientific work, including cinematographic films  work  films, tape  other means  production, for use  connection with radio   broadcasting. Therefore, the Tribunai held that the amount received  the assessee was not royalty under the Act  under the tax treaty.  also held that the amount was not taxable  business income since the assessee did not have    India. The Indian company had acted independently  obtaining the rights. Hence, the provisions  relating   agency  were not   invoked. ADIT  Warner Brothers Pictures Inc -787-ITAT-2o11 Mum Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts PwC11Corporate tax Facts The applicant   Indian company which has  network  retaii fuei stations  India. The applicant entered into  cost contribution agreement CCA with  Sheli Group company  group company  provide generai business support services which were  the nature  advisory management support services. The applicant sought  advance ruling  the following: Whether the payments made  the applicant  the group company  receive generai business support services under the CCA wili constitute income under provisions  the Act.  the said payment  considered  income, whether that payment wili amount  FTS  per the provisions  the India- tax treaty. The applicant contended that the services received   did not make available any technicai knowledge, skills, experience, etc. which would enable   apply the technology independently. There was  element  income involved since the agreement was only  cost contribution arrangement. AAR ruling The activities under the CCA covered ali types  activities, which included the core activities   retaii business. Any advice that helps the taking   decision   commerciai nature constitutes technicai  consultancy services. Advisory services wili  consultancy services   element  expertise  speciai knowledge  the part  the consultant  established. The AAR opined that make available means that the recipient  the service should    position  derive  enduring benefit and    position  utilise the knowledge  know-how  future  his own.   not necessary that this making available should  specifically provided for  the service agreement. The applicant contended that  became the owner  any know-how generated through the services which enabled   use any intellectuai property generated from the business support services, independent  the service provider. Hence, the services under the agreement were clearly made available  the applicant and were  the nature  FTS.  the payment related  the rendering  services  the group company was taxable  FTS, the applicant was required  withhold tax under section 195  the Act even where there was  . Sheli India Markers Pvt. Ltd. ,   --AAR-2o12  support services  support services   non-resident using equipment under its controi  India  taxable  FTS Facts The assessee,  Indian subsidiary   non-resident company,  engaged  the supply and commissioning  electric equipments for the transmission and distribution  power. The non-resident company proposed  enter into  -sharing services agreement  agreement with the assessee,  provide  support services  areas such  WAN, IBM Lotus Notes emaii software, license user rights and application support. The assessee filed  application before the AAR seeking  ruling  the taxability  payment made for the services. The assessee contended that the payment was  the nature  reimbursement  the non-resident company and hence  not chargeable  tax  royalties  FTS. AAR ruling The AAR noted that the payment under the  agreement was not  the nature  reimbursement, since  was stated  the agreement that the non- resident company had the capacity and resources  provide and coordinate the  services. Again,  the absence  any details, the equipment may  owned  the non-resident company and, even   hires the equipment,  would  under the exclusive controi  the non-resident company. The AAR also held that the existence   computer server amounts  the existence     the assessee  India,  terms  Article    the India-France tax treaty and the OECD Modei Commentary, which provides that   may exist  the business  the enterprise  carried  mainly through automatic equipment and the activities  the personnei are restricted  setting , operating, controlling and maintaining such equipment. The AAR, relying  the decision  the case  Perfetti Van Melle Holding . . ,   -723-AAR-2o11, held that since the  services were provided  the assessee and the services were applied  running the assessee  business and since the employees  the assessee were also equipped  operate these systems  their own after the completion  the  agreement, the services were made available since the assessee was   position  derive  enduring benefit and was   position  utilise the knowledge  the future  its own. Therefore, the AAR held that the payment for the services was  the nature  FTS. AREVA   India Ltd. ,   --AAR-2o12 Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC12Geophysicai survey Payment made for airborne geophysicai survey services  not FTS Facts The assessee  engaged  the business  prospecting for and mining diamonds and other minerals.  had entered into  agreement with   Netherlands Fugro,  carry out  airborne geophysicai survey, which required specialised equipment and personnei for the collection  high- quality data  select kimberlite rocks. Consequently, the assessee made  payment  Fugro for conducting the airborne survey without withholding any tax, contending that though the data provided  Fugro was usefui for further operations, Fugro had not made available the technicai know-how for conducting the survey. High Court order The  observed that though the nature  the services rendered  Fugro was technicai  nature,  was liable  tax under section   vii  the Act. However, under the India-Netherlands tax treaty, payment  any amount would  considered  FTS only  such services made available any technicai knowledge, expertise, skills, know-how  process  the service receiver. The Tribunai relied  the  decision  the case  UOI . Azadi Bachao Andolan ---2oo3  holding that the provisions  the tax treaty would override the provisions under the Act.  this case, the technicai services provided  Fugro would not enable the assessee  undertake any future survey. There was  enduring benefit from the technicai knowledge provided. Accordingly, although Fugro rendered technicai services under section   vii  the Act, payment for the same could not  considered  FTS under the Netherlands treaty. Hence, the assessee was not liable  withhold tax under section 195  the payment made  Fugro. CIT .  Beers India Minerals Pvt. Ltd. -312--2o12 Kar Balanced Scorecard Consideration for the implementation  Balanced Scorecard system taxable  FTS under the Singapore treaty Facts The tax payer   Singapore resident engaged  developing  Balanced Scorecard BSC, which   strategic performance management tooi. The services were provided  Indian companies, and involved these companies downloading licensed software from designated websites and  team being sent  the taxpayer  develop the BSC. The taxpayer contended that the fees received were  the nature  business income under the India- Singapore tax treaty Singapore tax treaty.  the absence   , the fees received were not taxable. The  divided the consideration into two parts and assessed the sale  software  royalties and the professionai fees  FTS. The   order was confirmed  the DRP. Tribunai order The Tribunai held that the BSC system was customised  the requirements  the clients and not off-the-shelf software.  held that the taxpayer was making available technicai knowledge and skills  the companies and the BSC system did not become redundant after the expiry  the agreement with the Indian companies. Hence, the assessee had made available technicai knowledge and skills  the clients for using the BSC for their business. Accordingly, under the Singapore tax treaty, the fee received was taxable  FTS. Organisation Development Pte Ltd. . DDIT Internationai Taxation --ITAT- 2o12-CHNY Presumptive taxation Income from seismic data procurement and processing services relating  oii exploration taxable under section 44BB Facts OHM Ltd. ,   company,  engaged  providing geophysicai services  the oii and gas exploration industry.  has secured contracts with two companies  LLC and CGG  relating  providing seismic services for  offshore exploration block  India. The assessee applied for  certificate under section 197  the Act  withhold tax   lower rate  . 223 under the provisions  section 44BB  the Act.  rejection  the application for the certificate under section 197  the Act, the assessee filed  application before the AAR claiming that the activities were directly related  exploration relating  and prospecting  minerai oii and were covered  section 44BB  the Act. The AAR ruled that the seismic services were taxable under section 44BB  the Act   effective rate  . 223. The revenue filed  writ petition before the   the issue  whether seismic services  India would  taxable under section 44BB  section 44DA  the Act. High Court order The  upheld the ruling  the AAR, holding that section 44BB   specific provision relating  computing income  non-residents from services  facilities provided  connection with prospecting for and extraction  Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC13production  minerai oii  India. Section 44DA  the Act   more generai and broader provision relating  the assessment  income   non-resident  royalties  FTS connected with the   the non-resident. Further, amendments made  introducing provisos  both the sections indicate that the sections are exclusively applicable, since both the sections have  different mode  computation. The court held that  harmonious construction  the aforesaid sections was necessary  that the provisions  both the sections are not rendered redundant. Accordingly, the Court upheld the view taken  the AAR that the specific provisions would override the generai provisions. Therefore, the seismic services would  taxable under section 44BB  the Act. DIT . OHM Ltd. -879--2o12 Taxability  turnkey contracts Looking  the nature   transaction, consortium bidding and executing  turnkey project gives rise   association  persons and consideration  this respect  income taxable  India Facts The Bangalore Metro Raii Corporation Ltd. BMRC had tendered  contract for the design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and commissioning  signalling, train controi and communication systems   consortium involving the assessee  tax resident  France, its subsidiaries Alstom Projects India Ltd. APIL, Thales Security Solutions and Services, , Portugai Thales and Sumitomo Corporation, Japan Sumitomo. The parties  the consortium were jointly and severally bound  the terms  the tender and liable  the BMRC for fulfilling the obligations under the contract. AAR ruling The AAR, relying  the decision  the case  Vodafone Internationai Holdings  . UOI 2o12 341 ITR  , held that the revenue authorities have  look  the transaction   whole and not  adopt  dissecting approach.  also held that the basic principle  the interpretation   contract   read    whole and  construe ali its terms  the context  what object the implementation  the contract was intended  achieve and what purpose  was intended  attain. Merely because the members have divided the obligations among themselves does not alter the status  those entering into the contract . . the status   association  persons AOP. The contract was for installing the signalling and communication system for the metro raii and not only for the supply  offshore equipment and has   read   whole and cannot  split-. The source  the receipt was the contract with the BMRC and not the contract inter   the understanding among the members  the consortium. The members had jointly prepared the bid and had come together  order  execute the project  their tender was accepted. They were jointly responsible for performing the entire work. The common object was  perform the contract and earn income. Accordingly, the AAR held that the consortium was liable   taxed   AOP. Alstom Transport ,   -387-AAR-2o12 The AAR has,  the case  Linde  Linde Engineering Division,   -17o-AAR-2o12, which was relied upon  the time the decision  the case  Alstom Transport   above was announced, held that the fact that  design  machinery was   supplied offshore did not determine the situs  the contract. The AAR also held that the internai division  work responsibility and other terms and conditions under the consortium MOU agreement between the parties could not  referred    order  interpret the rights and obligations under the contract with the Indian entity. The AAR held that the contract was held   indivisible since the situs  the contract was  India. Therefore, the amount receivable was received   AOP and was taxable  India. Splitting   project into  set  contracts for offshore and onshore components not   disregarded Facts The assessee,  non-resident Chinese company, has  project office  India.  entered   two contracts: one with WBPDC Ltd. and another with  Ltd. , for setting  turnkey thermai power projects. The assessee submitted its tax return which recorded  loss offering income from onshore activities  tax but did not offer income from offshore activities  tax  the grounds that this income  not liable  tax  India.  doing , the assessee relied  the decision  the case  Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. . DIT 2oo7 288 ITR 4o8 . During the course  assessment proceedings, the  noticed that each  these contracts was divided into two parts. The onshore activities were performed and the consideration was received  India  the project office  the assessee  India, and the consideration for offshore supplies was received  the assessee outside India. The  also noted that there was  cross-fali breach clause which treats the non-performance  one contractArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC14as  breach  the whole contract.  that basis, the  held that the contracts were artificially split-  avoid taxation  income  India and, accordingly, treated the contracts  integrated and one for the purpose  taxation. The DRP confirmed the order  the . Tribunai order The Tribunai noted that the  had treated the two contracts  integrated merely  the grounds that the assessee has incurred  loss  onshore activities.  held that although the cross-fali breach clause undoubtedly indicates that the offshore supplies contract and onshore services and supplies contract are required   viewed   integrated contract,  could not  argued held that the onshore services and supplies contract  was understated  avoid tax  India. This would  the case  the offshore activities showed unreasonable profits and onshore services and supplies resulted  unreasonable losses. The Tribunai also held that the observations made  the case  Alstom Transport ,   -387-AAR-2o12 regarding looking  the transaction   whole and not adopting  dissecting approach can  applied  ali cases  which separate contracts are entered into for offshore supplies and onshore services. However, these observations are certainly applicable  cases  which the values assigned  the onshore services are prima facie unreasonable vis--vis the values assigned  the offshore supplies which make  economic sense when viewed apart from the offshore supplies contract.  was noted  this case that ali the activities, . . onshore  weli  offshore, had resulted  huge losses due  the inordinate delay  the project which the DRP had also considered. The  had proceeded  the basis that profits had been made  offshore supplies outside the ambit  taxation  India. Therefore, the Tribunai returned the case back  the  for  fresh adjudication,  examine whether the assessee had incurred overali losses  the contracts. Dongfang Electric Corporation . DDIT -434-ITAT-2o12 Koi The Delhi Tribunai,  the case  Nationai Petroleum Construction Company . ADIT -756-ITAT-2o12 DEL, has held that  the case   UAE tax resident assessee, which had entered into  umbrella contract,  the consideration for offshore and onshore activities  stated separately and  agreed between the parties and the assessee  the time  awarding the contract, the contract may  construed   divisible contract. The Tribunai held that  this case, only the part  the profits attributable  the   India  taxable and the profits from offshore supplies cannot  taxable since the terms  the contract provided  right  withdraw  abandon the contract. However, the company  the contractor was not liable  make the entire payment  refund the amount received, which accrued only  completion  the contract. Hence, the contract could not  regarded   turnkey contract and only the profits attributable  the   India can  taxed  India.  another case, that  SEPCO III Electricai Power Construction Corporation,   --AAR-2o12, the AAR held that consideration received  the assessee,  Chinese company, from the offshore supply  equipment, including design, engineering, procuring and transportation activities,   Indian company  not taxable  virtue  the binding decision  the   the case  Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Ltd. . DIT 2oo7 288 ITR 4o8 . The AAR also rejected the contention  the revenue authorities that the assessee had  continued presence  India since, because  substantiai part  the contract amount was allocated  civii and erection purposes, the applicant had  coordinate with the relevant contractors relating  pre-commissioning activities and  provide assistance and support  the relevant contractors  ali times during  period   days. Capitai gains  transfer  shares  other interests pursuant   family arrangement  not  transfer for purpose  capitai gains tax Facts The assessee was party   family arrangement relating  certain personai and family properties.  account   dispute between family members, the matter was referred  arbitration. Under  settlement suggested  the arbitrator, the assessee transferred his share  the partnership firm  other members who,  turn, transferred their shares  the assessee. The  treated the settlement   transfer and held that the assessee was liable  pay capitai gains tax. The CIT  confirmed the order  the .  appeai, the Tribunai held that the family arrangement made  accordance with the suggestions  the arbitrator did not amount   transfer, and hence the assessee was not liable  pay any capitai gains tax. High Court order The  placed reliance  the case  CGT .   Madhusudhan Gift Tax Appeai Nos.   2oo8  which the following was held: Transfer does not include partition  family settlement  defined under the Act. Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC15 Since every member had  pre-existing title  the property which was the subject matter   the transaction the partition  adjustment  shares and crystallisation  the respective rights  family properties took place and this could not  construed   transfer under the law. The Tribunai had held,  consideration  the settlement agreement between the parties, that the transaction was  family arrangement. Accordingly,  was concluded that the there was  transfer  respect  shares transferred under the family arrangement and, hence,  liability  pay capitai gains tax arose. CIT .  Nagaraja Rao -222--2o1o Kar Permanent establishment Inherent right  the state  residence  tax globai income remains where business  carried  through   Facts The assessee,  tax resident  India,  engaged  providing telecommunication services  India and abroad.  had earned business income from numerous projects undertaken  various foreign countries through its PEs  the respective countries. However, the tax payer did not include the business income from the foreign countries  its income taxable  India since  was exempt from tax under the respective tax treaties. The  held that the business income attributable  the PEs was liable   taxed  India under Article   the respective tax treaties. The CIT  upheld the order  the .  appeai  the Tribunai,  was held that under the provisions  section   the Act, India had  inherent right  tax the globai income  its residents. Article   ali the relevant tax treaties consisted  two parts:  shali  taxable only, giving the state  residence  exclusive right  tax the assessee  business income, and  may  taxed giving the other contracting state, where the   situated,  right  tax the tax payer  business income. Therefore, even though ali the tax treaties applicable  the tax payer use the phrase may  taxed, the inherent right  taxing globai business income  India remains. Accordingly, the Tribunai held that where the tax treaty contains the phrase may  taxed, the state  residence would have  inherent right  tax the globai income  tax payer  India and also the income attributable  the PEs  the tax payer  the foreign countries. Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. . ACIT -185-ITAT-2o12 Dei Another decision   similar issue was given  the case  DCIT . Essar Oii Ltd. -461-ITAT-2o11.  this case, the tax payer,  Ltd, had branches  Qatar and Oman which were treated  PEs  the tax payer. The Tribunai held that the tax payer was not taxable  India  respect  the income  the foreign PEs, under Article   the tax treaties with Qatar and Oman. The Tribunai observed that  using the expression may also  taxed  the other state, the contracting parties permitted only the other state, . . the state  which the income was  sourced,  tax the income and precluded the state  residence from taxing the income. Representative assessment Taxability  income  the hands   non-resident not  relevant consideration  determine whether  resident   agent   non-resident Facts The assessee had entered into agreements with  non-resident, Airline Rotables Ltd. ,  ARL relating  obtaining aircraft components.  had requested the   issue  nii tax withholding certificate  relation  the payments   made  ARL. However, the  did not grant  nii tax withholding certificate, holding that ARL had    India and, accordingly, business income attributable  the  would become taxable  India. During the course  the assessment proceedings relating  ARL, the  relied  the findings  the , estimated ARL  income attributable  the  and taxed the same  business income. The CIT  upheld the findings  the . The Tribunai held that ARL did not have    India and, therefore, the income was not taxable  business profit  India. While the assessment proceedings relating  ARL were pending, the  also issued  notice  the assessee treating    agent  representative assessee  ARL under section 163   and 163    the Act.  appeai, the CIT  reversed the order  the  and held that the assessee cannot  considered   agent  ARL. Tribunai order The purpose  section 163  the Act   enable revenue authorities  proceed and impose  vicarious liability   person regarded   agent,  the event that income  found   taxable  the hands  the non-resident. The provisions  section 163  the Act  not require that the liability  the non-resident  pay tax should  established before initiating proceedings against  person under section 163  the Act  order  Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC16treat    agent  representative assessee  the non-resident. The taxability  income  the hands   non-resident was   determined  separate assessment proceedings, . . one  relation  payment made directly  the hands  the non-resident section 166  the Act  another  relation  payment made  the hands  the person treated   agent  the non-resident section 16o  the Act read with section 163  the Act.  person    regarded   agent  the non-resident  any  the parameters specified  section 163      the Act are satisfied.  this case, the assessee was   treated   agent  ARL, for the following reasons: Sufficient nexus existed between ARL  business and the assessee  envisaged under section 163    the Act. ARL was  receipt  income from the assessee for services rendered,  envisaged under section 163    the Act.  was further held that  order under section 163  the Act was not  assessment order. Hence, there was  merit  the assessee  contention that simultaneous proceedings against the principai,  weli  the agent, cannot  initiated. ADIT . Jet Airways India Pvt. Ltd. 2o12  taxmann. com  Mum One may note that  the case  Vodafone Internationai Holdings . . . UOI ---2o12,  similar issue was dealt with  the  ruling  the favour  the assessee: Facts The Hutchison Group Hong Kong owned  stake  CGP Ltd. ,  Cayman Islands company, which  turn was holding  interest   Indian operating company Hutchison Essar Ltd HEL. Vodafone Internationai Holdings . . VIH,  Dutch entity, acquired 1oo shares  CGP Ltd. from Hutchison group, which amounted   indirect acquisition   interest  the Indian entity, HEL. The revenue authorities treated VIH   representative assessee  Hutchison group under section 163    the Act and proceeded against  for non-withholding  tax under section 195  the Act  respect   sale consideration paid  Hutchison group for acquiring CGP and consequently HEL. The  held the following:  respect  tax withholding obligation under section 195  the Act Section 195  the Act only applies  payment  made   resident   non- resident.  the case  question, the sale transaction was  outright sale between two non-residents,   capitai asset CGP shares outside India. Since VIH had  tax presence  India  relation  this sale transaction, VIH cannot  brought under the jurisdiction  the Indian tax authorities and the tax withholding provisions under section 195  the Act would not apply  VIH.  respect  the representative assessee proceedings  order  invoke section 163    the Act, income must  deemed  have accrued  arisen  India. The capitai asset transferred . . shares  CGP Ltd. was not situated  India and, hence, VIH cannot  proceeded against under section 163  the Act. Circulars and notifications Approvai  foreign currency borrowings CBDT clarifies the approvai mechanisms for applying  lower withholding tax rate  foreign currency loans. Section 194LC has been inserted into the Finance Act, 2o12, which provides for tax withholding    interest payment  foreign borrowings   Indian company. This section provides for lower withholding tax  the rate    interest subject  fulfilment  the following conditions: . Amount borrowed  foreign currency either under  loan agreement   issue  long-term infrastructure bonds, approved  the centrai government. . Monies borrowed  bonds issued during the period from  July 2o12   June 2o15. . Monies borrowed  bonds issued during the period from  July 2o12   June 2o15. . The rate  interest should  approved  the . The Centrai Board  Direct Taxes CBDT,  order  mitigate the associated compliance burden, issued  circular prescribing compliance with the conditions outlined  ,  and  below  utilise borrowings under the automatic route, without approvai from the . Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC175.  respect  loan agreements The borrowing  money should  under  loan agreement. The monies borrowed  the Indian company should comply withexternai commerciai borrowings ECB regulations section     the FEMS, 1999 read with notification  FEMA3 2ooo-  viz. Foreign Exchange Management Borrowing  Lending  Foreign exchange Regulations 2ooo, dated  May 2ooo either under the automatic route  under the approvai route. The borrowing company should have obtained  loan registration number LRN issued  the RBI.  part  the borrowing has taken place under the agreement before  July 2o12.  should not   restructuring   existing agreement for borrowing  foreign currency solely for the purpose  taking benefit  reduced withholding tax rates. The end use  the funds should comply with other conditions laid down  the RBI under ECB regulations. For issue  long-term infra bonds The bonds issued  the Indian company should  authorised under ECB regulations either under the automatic route  under the approvai route. The bonds issue should have  LRN issued  the RBI. The term long-term means that the bonds   issued should have  originai maturity term  three years  more. The bond issue proceeds should  utilised  the infrastructure sector only infrastructure sector shali have the same meaning  assigned under the ECB regulations. Rate  interest The  has approved the interest rate for the purpose  section 194LC  any rate  interest which  within the ali- -cost ceilings specified  the RBI under ECB regulations applicable  borrowing  loan agreement  through  bonds issue. .  the case  other long-term infrastructure bonds, where the Indian company receives subscription  foreign currency bonds, and the issue  not covered under ECB regulations, approvai, for the purpose  section 194LC shali    case- -case basis. Also,  application shali  made  the Indian company  Member  CBDT with relevant details  the purpose, period and rate  interest  respect thereof. Circular   2o12,  . 142  2o12- TPL dated  September 2o12 Retrospective amendments Clarification regarding reopening  completed assessments   result  retrospective amendments  the Finance Act, 2o12 The Finance Act, 2o12 has introduced certain clarificatory amendments with retrospective effect relating  the following: Indirect transfer  shares according  Explanation  and Explanation   section     the Act which has been inserted with retrospective effect from  Aprii 1962. Taxability  royalty according  Explanations ,  and   section     the Act which has been inserted with retrospective effect from  June 1976. The CBDT has clarified that completed assessments would not  reopened  account  the above retrospective amendments under the following circumstances: The assessment proceedings under section 143   the Act have been completed before  Aprii 2o12.  notice for reassessment under section 148  the Act read with section 147  the Act has been issued prior  that date. However, any assessment  any order which stands validated due  the clarificatory amendments would  enforced. Set-  institutionai mechanism CBDT sets  institutionai mechanism for forming departmentai view  contentious legai issues The CBDT has set  the following institutionai mechanisms  formulate departmentai views  contentious legai issues  provide clarity  contentious legai issues, promote consistency  approach   given issue and reduce litigation. Centrai technicai committee  standing committee  the Board known  the Centrai Technicai Committee CTC  Departmentai View with prescribed members wili  set . The senior-most member shali act  chairman  the CTC  its meetings and may also invite any officer  the department conversant with the matter for relevant inputs and deliberations. Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts Corporate tax PwC18The secretariat  secretariat wili  formed  assist the CTC which shali  headed  the DIT Research CIT OSD under the supervision and controi  the DGIT  . The secretariat wili conduct research and provide inputs necessary for the CTC  deliberate upon the issues and formulate the departmentai view for consideration  the Board. Regionai technicai committee Each CCIT CCA shali constitute  Regionai Technicai Committee RTC comprising the prescribed members  discuss the legai issues  the locai levei. Identification  contentious legai issues Any issues considered  contentious and having wide implications shali  referred  the RTC  and when they are identified. The possible sources  identify such issues may include the following: The administrative CIT The CIT  The CIT   addition  the above, any officer may refer  issue considered contentious  the secretary  the RTC through the CIT concerned. The RTC may also pick  any issue for consideration suo motu. Procedure  RTC The secretary  the RTC shali submit the references for consideration  the RTC.  reference    pending for more than two months. The RTC shali examine the issue with reference  the relevant provisions  the Income-tax Act and the judiciai decisions available  the issue. The RTC shali refer the issue  the CTC  the following circumstances:  there are conflicting interpretations  Tribunai  AAR  respect   statutory provision  the interpretation   statutory provision  Tribunai  AAR defeats the legislative intent  the dispute involves substantiai revenue  has wide ramifications  the issue involved  resulting  large scale litigation,  there  any other reason for referring the issue  the CTCThe proposals  the CTC should include the following:  brief referrai note specifying the controversy. Copies  relevant orders . . orders  the , CIT , ITAT, High Court etc.  may  available. Work process  the CTC The secretariat may receive references for the consideration  the CTC from CBDT, RTCs and DsIT  . The CTC may also pick  any issue for consideration suo motu. The proposai shali  first processed  the secretariat  may  directed  the committee  enable   formulate the departmentai view, taking into account various aspects and divergent opinions  the issue. The committee shali take  references  formulate the departmentai view considering their relative importance. However, the reference received from the Board shali  prioritised. The committee shali examine the issue under consideration and form  tentative view, which may  circulated  the RTC seeking their response, who may also obtain  response from the CTC. The finai draft wili  prepared and sent for examination  the circular group  the Board. Dissemination  departmentai view The departmentai view approved  the Board wili  issued   circular under section 119  the  Act. Where any  decides  issue contrary  the departmentai view, the departmentai view shali not  operative  the area falling  the jurisdiction  the relevant . However, the CCIT concerned should immediately bring the judgment  the notice  the CTC, which shali examine the judgment   matter  priority  decide whether the filing  SLP  the Supreme Court wili   adequate response   cali for some legislative amendment. This institutionai mechanism comes into force from  August 2o12. Notification  -  . 279 - 2o12-ITJ dated  August 2o12Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Royalties  Capitai gains Permanent establishment Representative assessment Circulars and notificationsFees for technicai services Presumptive taxation Taxability  Turnkey contracts PwC19Personai tax Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC2oPersonai tax Taxability  employee  secondment expenses Reimbursement  employee relocation expenses paid  foreign company  not taxable Facts The tax payer,  Ltd, provides data processing and other -enabled services   Ltd. The tax payer had made certain payments   Ltd. towards reimbursement  relocation expenses and expenses  employee awards  which  tax was withheld. The  contended that  Ltd. provided consultancy services and the payment was made along with  mark  and was therefore subject  withholding tax. Tribunai order The Tribunai,  the basis  evidence produced  the tax payer, held that the payments made   Ltd. were  the nature  reimbursement  actuai expenses and included  income element.  this regard, reliance was placed  the decision   India Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. -14o- -2o1o  which  was held that there was  obligation  withhold tax unless the sum payable   non-resident was chargeable under the Act. Also, reference was made  the case  Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. . DCIT 2oo9  SOT 374 Mum ,  which  was held that there was  obligation  withhold tax where there was  element  income involved. Globai -Business Operations Pvt. Ltd. . Deputy DCIT  -499-ITAT-2o12 Bang  ITO . PQR India -258-ITAT-2o12 Bang, the Bangalore Tribunai held that reimbursement  salary costs under  secondment agreement was not fees for included services FIS under the India- treaty and would not  subject  withholding tax. The Tribunai, relying  the decision  the case  IDS Software Solutions India  Ltd . ITO 2oo9 122 TTJ 41o Bang, held that the secondee was  employee  the assessee, subject  tax under section 192, and was not rendering any technicai services. Therefore, there was  requirement  withhold tax  the salary. This ruling did not consider the decision  Verizon Data Services India  Ltd. 2o11 337 ITR 192 AAR,  which  was held that manageriai services rendered  deputed employees qualify  FIS under the India- treaty.  Abbey Business Services India Pvt. Ltd . DCIT -532-ITAT- 2o12 Bang,  similar issue was the subject   decision  the Bangalore Tribunai which held that reimbursement  salary and other administrative costs under  secondment agreement were not FTS.  was observed that the assessee was the reai and economic employer  the seconded employees and the reimbursement  salary costs and other administrative expenditure was without any profit element and was taxed under the Act  Article   the India- tax treaty. Therefore, there was  requirement  withhold tax and there would   disallowance under section     the Act.  Avion Systems Inc. . DDIT -37o-ITAT-2o12, the Mumbai Tribunai held that deputation  technicians was not  simple supply  manpower but was taxable  FIS. The Payment  this respect was taxable  FIS since the assessee was not  generai recruiting agency but was providing specialised personnei because  its expertise  the field  telecommunications. The assessee was providing technicai personnei and making available the expertise  the assessee. Accordingly, the receipts were taxable  FIS.  Centrica India Offshore Pvt. Ltd. ,   -163-AAR-2o12, the AAR ruled that  employee secondment arrangement gave rise   service  for the overseas entity under the India- tax treaty. Under  secondment agreement  between the applicant and its overseas subsidiaries, employees were seconded  work under the controi and supervision  the applicant. The AAR ruled that, under the , the employees right  remuneration related  the overseas entities. The applicant had  obligation  pay salary and, hence, the seconded employees created  service  for the foreign company.  this regard, reliance was placed  the  decision  the case  DIT . Morgan Stanley ---2oo7 and Verizon Data Services India Pvt. Ltd. ,   -236-AAR-2o11. Accordingly, tax was liable   deducted when payments were made  overseas entities. Corporate Tax Personai Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Taxability  Employees secondment expenses Mergers and Acquisitions Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC22Mergers and Acquisitions Capitai gains Indirect transfer  capitai assets situated  India not subject  capitai gains tax Facts The Hutchison Group owned interest   Indian operating company HEL through numerous overseas holding companies based  Mauritius and the Cayman Islands, including HTIL and CGP, two group companies based  the Cayman Islands.  2oo7, Vodafone Internationai  VIH acquired sole ownership  CGP from HTIL, resulting   indirect transfer  shares  HEL.  taxes were withheld  VIH under section 195  the Income- tax Act the Act when making payment  HTIL,  the grounds that the transaction was not taxable  India. VIH received  notice from the revenue authorities  show cause   why  should not  treated   assessee- -default for failure  withhold tax. The authorities contended that there was  transfer   controlling interest  HEL, its shares were indirectly transferred and the transfer  CGP shares was  tax avoidance scheme. VIH filed  writ petition with the Bombay . The latter dismissed the writ petition and VIH filed  speciai leave petition before the .  order The case  McDoweli and  Ltd. . CTO 1985 154 ITR 148  relates only  tax evasion through the use  colourable devices  dubious methods. Relying  Azadi Bachao Andolan  UOI 2oo3 263 ITR 7o6 , the  held that  taxpayer  entitled  approach his affairs  such  manner   ensure that his taxes are the lowest possible. Thus, not ali tax planning  illegai. The task  the court   look  the transaction   whole,  order  ascertain its true character, and not  adopt  dissecting approach. The expression directly  indirectly, contained  section  the Act, relates  income and not   transfer   capitai asset. Thus, section  does not extend  indirect transfers.  controlling interest   right embedded  shares and  not  separate property unless this  provided for  the statute. Accordingly,  transfer   controlling interest  HEL from HTIL  VIH through  transfer  CGP shares cannot  dissected  such  way   support the view that    transfer   controlling interest  Mauritius entities and then HEL. Furthermore, the parties did not agree  separate price  respect  the shares  CGP share and other rights and emoluments. Therefore,   not open  the revenue  split the payment between these items.  was also held that the purpose  the CGP was not only  hold shares  subsidiaries but also  enable  smooth transition  the business. Thus,  cannot  said that CGP had  commerciai purpose.  this basis, the  disagreed with the conclusions arrived   the Bombay  and quashed the tax demand imposed. Vodafone Internationai Holding   . UOI ---2o12 Vesting  shares   Indian company pursuant   overseas upstream merger  not liable  capitai gains tax Facts The applicant, Credit Suisse Internationai Holding,  company incorporated  Switzerland,   wholly-owned subsidiary WOS  another Swiss company,  the parent company. The applicant had  WOS  India, Credit Suisse Services India Pvt. Ltd.  India. The applicant intended  merge with its parent company  way   merger  absorption, under the provisions  the Swiss Merger Act. Consequent  this, ali the assets and liabilities  the applicant would  taken over  the parent company and  consideration would flow from the parent  the applicant. Pre Merger Post Merger Merger Switzerland India1oo 1oo Company CCompany  Applicant  India  IndiaCapitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Personai Tax PwC23The issues before the AAR were  follows: Whether capitai gains wili arise under section   the Act  the hands  the applicant due  the vesting  the shares  its Indian subsidiary with its parent company.  capitai gains wili arise, whether exemption from capitai gains tax under section  via  the Act wili  available  the applicant. AAR ruling The AAR held that there would   capitai gain  the applicant  India   result  the merger, for the following reasons: Section    the Act defines transfer  include sale, exchange  relinquishment   asset  the extinguishment  any right therein. Thus,  change  the ownership  the shares, from the applicant  the amalgamated company, wili involve  transfer. The taxability  the transaction wili depend  whether the merger   amalgamation under section    the Act and whether section  via exempts . Since the shareholders  the merging applicant company wili not become shareholders  the amalgamated company, condition iii  section   requiring shareholders holding  least   the value  the shares  the amalgamating company  become shareholders  the amalgamated company, wili not  satisfied. While section  via  the Act contains reduction with respect  the proportion  shareholding required, the condition itself cannot  met and accordingly the exemption wili not  available  the applicant. However, while the transaction wili attract section   the Act, the AAR held that  view  the ruling  the case  Dana Corporation,   AAR  788  2oo8, capitai gains are not determinable under section  and section   the Act. Accordingly, there wili   capitai gains   result  the merger. Credit Suisse Internationai Holding ,   -626-AAR-2o12 Capitai gains  direct and indirect transfer  shares  Indian company  Mauritius tax resident not taxable  India under the India-Mauritius tax treaty Facts Copai Partners Ltd. , Jersey Copai Jersey, held 1oo shares  Copai Research Ltd. , Mauritius Copai Mauritius. The latter,  turn, held 1oo shares  Copai Research India Pvt. Ltd. , India Copai India and Copai Market Research Ltd. , Mauritius Copai Research . Copai Research  held 1oo shares  Exevo Inc , which  turn held 1oo shares  Exevo India Pvt. Ltd. , India Exevo India. Both Copai Mauritius and Copai Research  held tax residency certificates TRCs issued  the Mauritius revenue authorities. The following transactions were undertaken  Copai: Sale  shares  Copai India  Copai Mauritius  Moody  Group Ltd. Moody  Cyprus Sale  shares  Exevo Inc   Copai Research   another  company Moody  Analytics, Inc Moody  USA The applicant sought  AAR ruling   whether capitai gains arising  the transfer were liable  tax  India. Copai Jersey Copai MauritiusMoody  Cyprus Copai India1oo 1oo 1oo 1oo 1oo 1oo 1oo Copai Research MUMoody  USA Exevo Inc.  Exevo India Pvt. Ltd. . . . . Transfer  shareholding Originai shareholdingMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC24AAR ruling The AAR, relying  the  decision  the case  UOI  Azadi Bachao Andolan 2oo3 263 ITR 7o6 , held that what  relevant  the context  the tax treaty  not whether the income  actually taxed  Mauritius, but whether,  terms  the tax treaty,  can  taxed  Mauritius. The AAR also held that the effective management  the companies takes place  the location where the board  directors BOD functions. There was nothing  record  show that the management  the Mauritius companies was not with its BOD. Accordingly, the AAR held that the transferor companies were tax residents  Mauritius.  the case   company which   independent legai entity, the theory  beneficiai ownership does not prevaii over the apparent legai ownership.  company recognises the recorded owner  the shares and not the person  whose behalf those shares may have been held. Accordingly, the AAR held that the capitai gains flowing Copai Mauritius  direct transfer  shares  Copai India and Copai Research   indirect transfer  shares  Exevo India would not  taxable  India  virtue  Article    the tax treaty. Moody  Analytics Inc,   2o12  Taxmann  AAR Capitai gains  transfer  shares  Indian company   Mauritius company holding valid tax residency certificate,  not chargeable  tax under the India-Mauritius tax treaty Facts The applicant, Dynamic India Fund,   company incorporated  Mauritius. Dynamic India Fund  registered with the Securities Exchange Board  India SEBI   foreign venture capitai investor. The applicant held  valid TRC from the Mauritius revenue authorities and did not have    India. The controi  the applicant  affairs took place  Mauritius and decisions were taken  the BOD from Mauritius. The applicant   WOS  Dynamic India Fund  DIF , another company based  Mauritius. DIF  pools funds from investors ali over the world and invests them  capitai  the applicant. The applicant invested the funds received  this way  the shares  Indian companies.  held the shares with the intention  generating long-term capitai appreciation. These shares were reflected  investment  its books. The issue before the AAR was whether such transfer  shares  chargeable  tax  India. AAR ruling The AAR held that there   materiai  record  show that routing  the investments  the applicant through Mauritius   scheme for tax avoidance  India. Also, there were inadequate records  show that the applicant  decisions were taken from India. Further, relying  the   decision  the case  UOI  Azadi Bachao Andolan 2oo3 263 ITR 7o6 , the AAR held that what  relevant  the context  the tax treaty  not whether the income  actually taxed  Mauritius, but whether,  terms  the tax treaty,  can  taxed  the country.  the light  the above, the capitai gains arising  the transfer  shares held  Indian companies wili not  taxable  India under Article    the India-Mauritius tax treaty. Dynamic India Fund,   -513-AAR-2o12 Transfer pricing provisions apply even though transfer  shares   Indian company   Mauritius company  not subject  tax under the India-Mauritius tax treaty Facts The applicant, Castleton Investment Ltd. ,  company incorporated  Mauritius, holds shares   Indian company. The applicant proposes  transfer its investment  the Indian company  fair value   associated enterprise  Singapore Singapore , through  off-market transaction. The issues before the AAR were  follows: Wili capitai gains arising  the transfer  shares  taxable  India? Wili transfer pricing  provisions  applicable,  the transaction  not taxable  India? Should taxes  withheld  the consideration paid  the applicant  relation  the transfer  shares?  the applicant required  file  return  income under section 139  the Act  the transfer  shares  not taxable  India? Wili the minimum alternate tax MAT provisions under section 115JB  the Act  applicable  the applicant? Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC25AAR ruling The AAR, relying upon the ruling  the   the case  UOI . Azadi Bachao Andolan 2oo3 263 ITR 7o6 , held that  transfer  the shares   Indian company   Mauritius company  not subject  capitai gains tax  India under Article    India-Mauritius tax treaty. The AAR held that,  per section   the Act,  provisions are applicable  any income arising from  internationai transaction, and that the word income had  wide connotation. Accordingly,  provisions were applicable  ali internationai transactions, irrespective  whether  not the ultimate gain  income  taxable  India. The AAR, relying upon the decision  the   the case   Technology Centre Pvt. Ltd. . CIT 2o1o 327 ITR 456 , ruled that there   obligation  withhold tax,  income  not chargeable  tax under the provisions  the Act. The obligation under section 139  the Act does not simply disappear  account  the non-taxability  the income under the beneficiai provisions  the tax treaty. Therefore, the Mauritian company  required  submit its tax return  India. Further, since the MAT provisions under the Act  not distinguish between Indian and foreign companies, the MAT provisions apply  foreign companies. Castleton Investment Ltd. ,   -6o7-AAR-2o12 Buy-back  shares  WOS taxable  capitai gains Facts The applicant  German company had  WOS  India  which  held  .  stake, with the balance  .  held through its nominees. The Indian company proposed  buy-back shares from the applicant. The buy- back would result   transfer  shares  the Indian company from the applicant  the Indian company. The applicant approached the AAR for  ruling   whether  transfer  the WOS  the shares  the Indian company  the applicant,  the course  the proposed buy-back  shares, wili  exempt from tax  India  the hands  the applicant,  view  the provisions  section    the Act. AAR ruling Section 46A  the Act provides that   shareholder receives any consideration from any company for the purchase  its own shares, then, subject  the provisions  section   the Act, the difference between the cost  the acquisition and the value  the consideration received  the shareholder shali  deemed   the capitai gains flowing  that shareholder. Section   the Act   generai provision dealing with the transfer  ali capitai assets.  the other hand, section 46A  the Act can  understood   speciai provision dealing with the purchase  company  own shares   company. Thus, section 46A  the Act would supersede the generai provisions  section   the Act. Therefore, there appears    reason   into  enquiry   whether section 46A  the Act   charging section  not. Accordingly, section 46A  the Act wili  applicable   case   buy- back  shares. Further, section 46A  the Act  not subject  section   the Act, which  best only overrides section   the Act. Additionally, exemption under section    the Act postulates that  company must hold 1oo shares  its subsidiary Indian company, either directly  through its nominees. Since other companies were holding shares  the Indian company  nominees  the applicant, alongside the applicant,  cannot  postulated that the applicant held 1oo  the shares  the Indian company. Hence, the proposed buy-back  shares wili  taxable  capitai gains under section 46A  the Act and would not  exempt under section    the Act. RST,   -162-AAR-2o12 Applicability  capitai gains tax, transfer pricing provisions and exemption under section    buy-back  shares   Indian company Facts The applicant, Armstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd. ,   tax resident  Mauritius and  WOS  Armstrong World Industries Ltd. ,  Armstrong . Armstrong World Industries India Pvt. Ltd. Armstrong India   subsidiary  the applicant. The latter held  .  stake  Armstrong India and the remaining stake was held  Armstrong . Armstrong India proposed  buy-back  part  its shares from the applicant under section 77A  the Companies Act, 1956. The issues before the AAR were  follows: Whether the applicant  liable  capitai gains tax  India  the buy- back  such shares  Armstrong India. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC26 Whether the transfer  Armstrong India  shares  the applicant  the latter  the course  the proposed buy-back  shares wili  exempt from capitai gains tax  India  view  section    the Act. Whether the proposed buy-back  shares wili attract the transfer pricing provisions  the Act. AAR ruling The AAR ruled that sufficient evidence had not been produced  the income tax authorities  substantiate the argument that the investments were made through the applicant,  Mauritius company,  take advantage  the India-Mauritius tax treaty and  avoid tax  India. Relying  the   decision  the case  UOI  Azadi Bachao Andolan 2oo4  SCC  , the AAR held that, based  the facts presented, the assessee was eligible  claim the benefits  the India- Mauritius tax treaty and capitai gains wili not  taxable  India. The AAR, placing reliance  the ruling  the case  RST   AAR 1o67  2o11, held that the benefit  section    the Act wili not  available  the entire share capitai  Armstrong India was not held  the assessee but was jointly held  the assessee and Armstrong . The AAR also placed reliance  the ruling  Castleton Investment Ltd.   AAR 999  2o1o  holding that the transaction was  internationai transaction between related parties and the  provisions would  applicable  such  transaction. Armstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd. ,   -628-AAR-2o12 Gains arising  sale  compulsorily convertible debentures - characterised  interest, benefit  capitai gains exemption under the India-Mauritius tax treaty denied Facts The applicant,  Mauritius based company, entered into  shareholders agreement SHA and with ,  Indian company, and  share subscription agreement SSA with   its subsidiary, . Pursuant  the SHA, the applicant invested money    the form  equity shares and zero percent compulsorily convertible debentures CCDs. The applicant was given  put option  seli and  was given  cali option  acquire the equity shares and CCDs   pre-determined price,  specified intervals.  exercised the cali option  purchase the entire stake held  the applicant   which resulted  capitai gains  the hands  the applicant. The issue before the AAR was whether the gain  the sale  the Mauritius company  equity shares and CCDs   Indian company  exempt under Article    the India-Mauritius tax treaty. AAR ruling The SHA provided for the calculation  the purchase price after including accrued return  the cost  investment within the range    , compounded quarterly, depending  the period  holding  the investment  the applicant. The aforementioned method  calculating the purchase price constituted interest, falling within the definition  interest both under the Act and the treaty  the definition  interest was wide enough  cover any type  income payable  debentures. The conversion  debentures into equity  the end  the specified period constituted  constructive repayment  debt. Hence, the amount paid   was towards debt and the interest thereon. The AAR also noted that  did not exercise any power  managing its own affairs and was controlled and managed  . Thus,  and  were the identicai.  was for   demonstrate commitment  pay the debt and the amount paid   was clearly towards the debt taken   from the applicant. Accordingly, the AAR held that the appreciation  the value  CCDs was  the nature  payment  interest and was taxable under Article   the tax treaty. ,   -198-AAR-2o12 Overseas Equity CCDs Equity  Transfer  Equity CCDs IndiaZ- Applicant Mauritius SVMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC27Gift  shares prior  June 2o1o treated  capitai receipt, exempted under section  iii Facts The assessee,  Indian Company, and British India Steam Navigation  BISNCL,  -based company, are WOSs  Peninsular and Orientai Steam Navigation  . BISNCL held shares   Indian company, Hili Park Ltd. HPL.  virtue  this holding, BISNCL was BISNCL became the owner  three residentiai flats. During assessment year  2oo8-, BISNCL gifted the shares  HPL  the assessee, and this involved gifting the flats  weli. The assessee claimed exemption   gift  shares and flats under section  iii  the Act. The  treated the gift  shares   colourable transaction and treated the receipt  the flats  income from other sources under section  ,  the grounds that the basic condition for making gifts, that  love and affection, does not exist between artificiai entities. The  also held that the transfer was made for business convenience but was only presented   gift. The CIT  upheld the order  the  and treated the gift  income.  held that the income  taxable  profits and gains from business and profession under section    the Act. Tribunai order Since gift  not defined  the Act, the Tribunai imported its meaning from the Transfer  Property Act, 1882, and observed that there   restriction that  gift can  made only between naturai persons out  love and affection. Therefore,  company can gift shares and although such  transaction may appear   strange transaction  cannot  treated   non-genuine transaction. The Tribunai also held that  company can gift shares  long  the articles  association  the company and the laws  the country where   incorporated permit    .  this case,  was factually established that BISNCL was authorised  make the gift. The Tribunai held that the gift  shares received constitutes  receipt  capitai and  cannot  said    benefit  perquisite arising from business. Inter-group gifts  not necessarily imply business dealings. The Tribunai also examined the recent amendments  section   the Act treating gifts  shares between companies  other income. The Tribunai held that these amendments are applicable  transactions carried out after June 2o1o. Therefore, they were not attracted  the case  question. Accordingly, the Tribunai held that the gift  shares constituted  receipt  capitai and not taxable  view  the specific exemption available under section  iii  the Act.  World Pvt. Ltd. . DCIT -767-ITAT-2o12 Mum Depreciation Goodwili arising  amalgamation   asset eligible for depreciation Facts YSN Shares and Securities Pvt. Ltd. YSN amalgamated with the assessee  accordance with  scheme sanctioned  the   Bombay and Calcutta. The excess consideration paid over the value  the net assets acquired from YSN was considered  goodwili arising  amalgamation. Tax depreciation  goodwili was claimed, treating the goodwili   intangible asset under section   the Act. The  rejected the claim  the basis that goodwili  not  intangible  defined  Explanation   section    the Act, and the assessee had not paid any consideration for the same. The CIT  and the Tribunai ruled  favour  the assessee and noted that  the process  amalgamation, the assets and liabilities  YSN were transferred  the assessee for  consideration and the difference between the cost  assets and the amount paid constituted goodwili. Thus,  was held that the assessee,  the process  amalgamation had acquired  capitai right  the form  goodwili, because  which the market worth  the assessee was increased. This aspect was not challenged  the tax department during  further appeai before the . The  affirmed the claim  the assessee and the department appealed  the .  order The  held that Explanation   section    the Act states that the expression asset means  intangible asset, being know-how, patents, copyrights, trademarks, licences, franchises  any other business  commerciai rights   similar nature. The principle  ejusdem generis wili strictly apply when interpreting the said expression which  mentioned  Explanation  . The  accordingly held that goodwili wili fali under the expression any other business  commerciai right   similar nature under     the Act.  weli  holding the above, the  also observed that the department had not challenged the fact that the assessee acquired  capitai right  the form  goodwili  the process  amalgamation. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC28  Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. . CIT -682--2o12 Bom, the assessee, Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. purchased  catering business   slump-sale, from Indian Hotels Company Ltd.  per the valuation report, the consideration was apportioned  assets and goodwili which was capitalised  the books  account, and depreciation was claimed under section   the Act. The tax authorities disallowed the depreciation  goodwili which was confirmed  the Tribunai. The , relying  the   decision  the case  CIT  Smifs Securities Ltd. , held that the assessee was entitled  make depreciation. The  acknowledged the goodwili   intangible asset eligible for depreciation under section   the Act. CIT  Smifs Securities Ltd. -639--2o12 Gift  shares AAR doubts genuineness  inter-corporate gifts, terms them  strange transaction Facts The applicant, Orient Green Power Pte. Ltd. ,   company incorporated  Singapore. The applicant has investments  the following two companies  India: .   Orient Green Power Ltd. Orient India .   Bharath Wind Farm Ltd. Bharath India. The balance stake  Bharath India  held  Orient India. The applicant transferred its .  stake  Bharath India  Orient India, without consideration,   gift,  executing  gift deed   January, 2o1o. The issue raised for the AAR  consideration was whether the transfer  Orient India  shares  Bharath India  the applicant without consideration would qualify for exemption under section  iii  the Act. AAR ruling The AAR observed that  orai gift between two corporations   strange transaction and could only  aiding tax avoidance.  its view, gifts involve  individuai,  joint Hindu family  any other human agency, since section  iii  the Act specifically deals with cases  any transfer   capitai asset through  gift,   wili   irrecoverable trust. Also, transactions between corporations are specifically covered  sections   and    the Act, dealing with transactions between  holding company and its subsidiary. Accordingly, the AAR was  the view that  gift  shares  companies should not  covered within the ambit  exemption provided section  iii  the Act. However, the AAR declined  give  finai ruling  this matter and referred the matter  the assessing authorities for further examination. Orient Green Power Pte Ltd.   -6o8-AAR-2o12 Gift  shares  shareholders   company not  sham transaction and the subsequent sale results  capitai gains Facts The assessee, Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd. , was incorporated   investment company. Two directors  the company transferred  the assessee shares  Infosys Technologies Ltd.  way   gift, under  gift deed. Out The assessee sold some  these shares and the balance  the shares was shown  investment  its books. Income arising  sale  such shares was treated  capitai gains  the assessee and was accordingly offered  tax  its tax return. The  held that  gift  shares   company  its shareholders amounted  gifting  oneself and hence was not  genuine transaction. Further, the  noted that the main object  the company was  deai  shares and, therefore, the  assessed the gains  sale  shares  business income.  appeai, the CIT  and the Tribunai ruled  favour  the assessee. The revenue authorities filed  appeai before the Karnataka . High Court order The  held  follows:  common parlance,  gift   transfer  one person  another,  existing movable  immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration, and includes the deemed transfer  conversion  any property. The gift  shares  the assessee was  valid and genuine transaction  the assessee was  separate legai entity and there was  restriction  the gifting  shares  the shareholders  the company. The  observed that the assessee was only  investment company engaged  buying, acquiring, investing  and holding shares and merely because the company earned profits from the sale  shares did Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC29not mean that the company  engaged  the trading  shares. Furthermore, the  relied  the  ruling  the case  CIT . Sutlej Cotton Mills Supply Agency 1975 11o ITR 7o6  and . Venkataswamy Naidu and . 1959  ITR 594  and held that  solitary sale  shares  the assessee could not  treated  constituting  trade  business  shares. CIT . Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd. -656--2o12 KAR Tax exemption planning Change  ownership would not constitute reconstruction and tax holiday available after slump sale Facts Indian Organic Chemicals Ltd. IOCL, the assesee, had set  Sonata Software Division, which consisted  two parts:   software technology park STP undertaking, eligible for exemption under section 1oA  the Act; and   non-STP undertaking. IOCL transferred its software division   going concern   slump sale  the assessee. The assessee claimed exemption under section 1oA  the Act  respect  the income from the STP undertaking. The  denied the exemption claimed  the assessee under section 1oA  the following grounds: The STP undertaking was formed  the splitting   reconstruction   business already  existence,  the same business was carried   IOCL before  was carried   the assessee. Ali the assets and liabilities, including plant and machinery, previously used were transferred  the assessee. The CIT  upheld the order  the . However, the Tribunai held that where  ongoing business  transferred lock-stock-and-barrei  one assessee  another assessee, the principle relating  reconstruction, splitting  and transfer  plant and machinery cannot  applied. High Court order The  relied  the decision  the division bench  CIT . Gaekwar Foam Rubber Company 1959  ITR 662 Bom which was also approved  the   Textile Machinery Corporation Ltd . CIT 1977 1o7 ITR 195 ,  which the following was held:  substantially the same business  carried   substantially the same persons, this would amount  reconstruction. Where the ownership   business  undertaking changes, this would not  regarded  reconstruction.  this case  question, the entire business  the software undertaking was transferred   going concern  the assessee. Thus, the undertaking  the assessee was not formed   splitting   the business and therefore the exemption under section 1oA was available  the assessee for the unexpired period  the tax holiday. CIT . Sonata Software Ltd. -164--2o12 BOM Tax planning within the legai framework  the law  permissible Facts Allotment  shares Merger Unichem LabsPromoter Public Shareholders Transferor CompaniesMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC3o Five companies transferor companies were being merged into Unichem Laboratories Ltd. Unichem Labs,  listed company, under  scheme  arrangement. The assets  the transferor companies predominantly consisted  shares  Unichem Labs. The scheme provided for the cancellation  shares held  the transferor companies  Unichem Labs and the allotment  shares  the shareholders  the transferor companies, . . promoters.  minority shareholder  Unichem Labs objected  the scheme,  the grounds that the objective  the scheme was  avoid capitai gains tax  the transfer  shares held  the transferor companies  Unichem Labs  the promoters. High Court order The  held  follows: The object  the scheme  legitimate.  provides long-term stability and transparency. Furthermore,   permissible under the law and  not  colourable device designed  avoid tax. Every transaction  arrangement which  permissible under the law which has the result  reducing the tax burden   assessee should not  treated   tax avoidance device reliance was placed  the  decision  case  UOI . Azadi Bachao Andolan 2oo4  SCC  . Unichem Labs cannot   fault  the objective was   achieved through one  the alternate options available.  the case  UOI . Ambalai Sarabhai Enterprises Ltd 1984 147 ITR 294 Guj, the Gujarat  sanctioned the scheme, despite the fact that the transaction incidentally led   reduction  tax costs. Relying  the judgement  the Division Bench  the Bombay   the case  Sterlite Industries India Ltd. 2oo3  SCL 475 Bom, the  held that the income-tax authorities are not required   heard while sanctioning  scheme under sections 391  394  the Companies Act, 1956. AVM Capitai Services Pvt. Ltd. -512--2o12 BOM Transaction within four corners  law can  treated  sham and colourable device  looking  human probabilities Facts The assessee, Killick Nixon Ltd. , had provided  guarantee  INR 1oo crore  Vysya Bank Ltd. for extending financiai facilities  another group company. When the guarantee was invoked, the assessee agreed  transfer the land  owned   2ooo-  the bank   substantiai gain.  the same year, these gains were set off against short-term and long-term capitai loss arising from sale  shares. The  disallowed the set-off  loss stating that the transaction was  'sham'.  this regard,  was noted  the  that   1999-, the assessee received funds from group entities and made investments  its subsidiary companies   premium  INR 14o per share, although the fair value was less than INR  per share. These funds were then transferred  the subsidiary companies  another group company. Thereafter,  the relevant year, the assessee sold the shares   value  INR  per share and the loss which arose was set off against gain  sale  land. Thus, the  concluded that the assessee was conscious  the gain  sale  land, and therefore, sold the shares   loss. Thus, the  disallowed the capitai loss  the sale  shares. The CIT  and the Tribunai upheld the findings  the  and rejected the transaction involving investment  subsidiaries and sale  their shares, considering this    sham. High Court order The  relied  the decision    case  Vodafone Internationai . .  . UOI 2o12 2o4 Taxman 4o8   holding that  the transaction undertaken  the taxpayer was  sham,  could not  considered  part  tax planning  legitimate reduction  tax liability. Thus, the  concluded that the sale and purchase  shares  the assessee  consider the capitai loss was  sham transaction. Killick Nixon Ltd . DCIT -148--2o12 BOM Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC31Negative net worth   added  sale consideration for determining capitai gains  slump sale Facts The assessee company  engaged  the business  reai estate, investment, manufacturing  transmission line towers and undertaking turnkey projects  India and abroad.   scheme  arrangement under the Companies Act, 1956, the assessee transferred its power transmission business the undertaking  KEC Internationai Ltd.  way   slump sale, for  consideration  INR 143 crore.  its audit report, the company declared the net worth  the undertaking   negative sum  INR 157o million. The assessee relied  the ruling  the case  Zuari Industries . ACIT 2oo7 1o5 ITD 569 Mum and Paperbase . Ltd. . CIT 2oo8  SOT163 Dei and offered the sale consideration  INR 143 crore  long-term capitai gains under section 5oB  the Act. The  computed capitai gains  INR 3oo crore  the slump sale  the undertaking declared sales consideration  INR 143 crore plus additionai liabilities taken over amounting  INR 157 crore. Tribunai order The Tribunai held that  determining the fuli-value  the consideration, only the amount actually received  accruing  relevant and not what ought  have been received  the fair market value  the capitai asset. The expressions net worth and cost used  section 5oB  the Act are  the context   undertaking and refer  ali assets minus ali liabilities. Section 5oB contemplates the computation  cost  acquisition and cost  improvement  the undertaking which includes within its ambit the liabilities  such undertaking  unit  division.  the book value  ali the liabilities  more than the book value  ali the assets,   quite naturai that the capitai gains  the transfer  the undertaking wili  more than the fuli value  the consideration because the value  liabilities undertaken  the transferee  embedded  the undertaking and has the effect  reducing the fuli value  the consideration. Therefore,  the case   slump sale   undertaking having negative net worth, the negative net worth cannot form part  the fuli value  consideration. However, this value does need   added  the sale consideration when computing capitai gains. DCIT . Summit Securities Ltd. -14o-ITAT-2o12 Mum Corporate law developments Company law Amendment relating  change  registered office   company from one state  another The Ministry  Corporate Affairs has amended the Companies Centrai Government  Generai Rules and Forms, 1956,  inserting Rule 4BBB which came into effect   August 2o12. Rule 4BBB contains  procedure for changing the registered office   company from one state  another under the provisions  section   the Companies Act, 1956. This procedure was earlier laid down  the Company Law Board Regulations, 1991. The important changes  the process  changing  registered office under Rule 4BBB are summarised below: Changes relating  filing  petition:  company which wishes  change its registered office from one state  another  required  file  petition before the regionai director  prescribed forms: Form  and Form 24AAA. Under the erstwhile regulations,  was required that  application  filed with the Company Law Board and  specific form was prescribed for filing this application. Change  cut-off date for certain documents: The cut-off date for the list  creditors and debenture holders which   required  filed along with the petition which must state the name, address and the amount due  these creditors  debenture holders, shali not precede the date the petition  filed  more than one month  had previously been two months. Notification . . . .  dated  July 2o12 Scheme  arrangement for transfer  passive infrastructure assets for nii consideration without transfer  liabilities Facts Vodafone Essar Gujarat Limited VEGL had filed  scheme  arrangement under sections 391  394  the Companies Act, 1956 for demerger  its passive infrastructure assets PIA without transfer  liabilities from seven group companies  Vodafone Essar Infrastructure Ltd. VEIL for  nii consideration. The scheme had been rejected  the Gujarat   December 2o1o and  revision petition was filed  VEGL with the division bench  Gujarat . Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC32The income-tax authorities ITA challenged the scheme, contending that its sole object was  avoid payment  tax  transferring PIA  VEIL  nii consideration and subsequently merging VEIL with Indus. Further, since  liabilities were transferred, the transfer was not  demerger for tax purposes. High Court order The Gujarat  considered the following two factors:  whether the ITA have locus standi  raise objections  the scheme and  whether the sole object  the scheme was avoidance  tax. The  held  follows: Since there are dues payable  VEGL  the ITA, the ITA are creditors  VEGL and accordingly have locus standi  terms  raising objections  the scheme. The sole object  the scheme was not tax avoidance  there are commerciai benefits  the proposed transaction such  improved quality  services  customers, maximisation  business value and conversion  non-revenue generating assets into revenue generating assets and the reconstruction   line with government policies and globai trends. There   bar that restrains  transaction from being treated differently under different laws and, accordingly, the transfer  way  the scheme can  treated   gift and not demerger under the Income-tax Act. The same scheme has been approved  other HCs and similar contentions  the ITA have been quashed  Delhi . Accordingly, the scheme was approved  the .  further noted that pending proceedings  the tax authorities against the transferor company shali not  affected  view  the   sanctioning  the scheme. Vodafone Essar Gujarat Ltd. . DIT Company Petition  183  2oo9 Objection  third parties   scheme  arrangement   considered independently Facts Essar Telecommunications Holdings Pvt. Ltd. the transferor proposed  amalgamate with India Securities Ltd. the transferee such that the entire undertaking  the transferor would  transferred  the transferee. The scheme was sanctioned  the shareholders  both companies. The regionai director  report stated that SEBI had forwarded   letter received from Vodafone Internationai . . objector stating that  should also  admitted   party  the petition. The transferor indirectly held  1oo stake  ETHL Communications Holding Ltd. ECHL which  turn holds .  stake  Vodafone Essar Ltd VEL, the remaining stake being held  the objector. The Income Tax Department ITD also objected  the scheme stating that  tax demand was pending against the transferor  holding company. High Court order The  held that the only parties who can object  the scheme are either the shareholders  the creditors  the company. The provisions  section 391  the Companies Act, 1956, does not envisage the filing  objections   third party whose rights might  affected   scheme  arrangement.  remedy with regard  enforcement  rights  third parties was   independently availed  and could not   reason  object  the scheme  arrangement. The  thus held that since VEL was neither  creditor nor  shareholder  the transferor  the transferee company,  could not file the application. Furthermore, the  also rejected the objection  the ITD stating that  claim was pending against the transferor and transferee company.  was held that the only objection which could  raised  any person  response   notice could  with respect  the legality  the scheme   its being  violation  any law.  the absence  any violation, merely because certain rights   third party were going   affected, could not   reason  permit  third party  file  objection  the scheme. Essar Telecommunications Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and India Securities Ltd. 2o12 1o6 CLA  Chennai Stamp duty Court order sanctioning  scheme  amalgamation  demerger   instrument and conveyance liable  stamp duty Facts  scheme  amalgamation under section 391  394  the Companies Act, 1956, was filed  Emami Biotech Ltd.  the state  West Bengai. The assessee contended that  order  the court wili not amount   instrument unless this  specifically provided for and since there   specific entry relating  mergers  the schedule  the West Bengai Stamp Act,  order  the court cannot amount   instrument  which stamp duty can  levied. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC33High Court order  determine the applicability  the   decision  the case  Hindustan Lever Ltd. . State  Maharashtra 2oo4  SCC 438 , the  compared the relevant provision  the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958, with the West Bengai Stamp Act, 1964, and observed that the definition   instrument  both Acts was similar and observed that the ratio    decision  the case  Hindustan Lever Ltd. would  applicable  the present case. The  relied  the   observations  the Hindustan Lever case and held that  order passed under section 394  the Companies Act, 1956,  based  the agreement consent which would make such  order  instrument which  leviable  stamp duty. The court also referred  its earlier judgment  the case  Gemini Silk Ltd. . Gemini Overseas Ltd. 2oo3 114 Comp Cas  Cai.  which  had held that orders sanctioning schemes  the state  West Bengai would  subject  stamp duty. The court also referred  the judgments  the Allahabad, Delhi and Madras HCs, rendered after the   pronouncement  the Hindustan Lever case. The court, thus, held that  order sanctioning  scheme under section 394  the Act falls within the description  the words instrument and conveyance within the meaning  the West Bengai Stamp Act and that the scheme  subject  stamp duty.  respect  the notification dated  January 1937, providing remission  stamp duty under Article  which applies  conveyance  Schedule   the Indian Stamp Act, 1889, the court held that the said notification  not applicable  West Bengai  the state legislature,   overt act, has taken Article  outside the purview  Schedule  and placed   Schedule   the West Bengai Stamp Act, 1964. Emami Biotech Ltd. . State  West Bengai Company Application . 777  2o11 SEBI Manner  achieving minimum public shareholding SEBI has directed the promoters  listed entities  dilute their stake    meet the minimum public shareholding  for private sector companies and  for PSU  requirements. Accordingly, SEBI has made amendments  clause 4oA  the equity listing agreement vide circular CIR CFD DIL  2o12 dated February , 2o12, and circular CIR CFD DIL  2o12 dated  August, 2o12.  facilitate compliance  listed entities with the minimum shareholding requirements within the specified time, SEBI initially allowed the following methods: Issuance  shares  public through prospectus Offer for sale  shares held  the promoters  public through prospectus Sale  shares held  promoters through the secondary market under the terms  SEBI Circular CIR MRD   2o12 dated  July 2o12 Institutionai placement programme IPP under terms  Chapter VIIIA  SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2oo9,  amended. The following additionai avenues have now also been made available  promoters,  assist them  complying with the regulations: Rights issue  public shareholders, with promoters promoter group shareholders forgoing their rights entitlement Bonus issue  public shareholders, with promoters promoter group shareholders forgoing their bonus entitlement The shares would  allotted only  public shareholders under such rights and bonus issues. Furthermore, listed entities desirous  seeking any relaxation from the available methods  achieving the minimum shareholding requirement through other means may seek the regulator  approvai for the same. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC34Different promoter groups cannot  deemed   persons acting  concert PAC unless they share common objective  purpose   substantiai acquisition  shares   target company Facts The target company  had two promoter groups, and there was  serious rift amongst them. The  converted share warrants held  the promoters into equity shares and one promoter group also acquired the shares  the  from the market.  conversion  the aforesaid warrants and acquisitions from the market, the shareholding  the promoter group, increased from  aggregate .   . , which resulted  the triggering   open offer under the SEBI Substantiai Acquisition  Shares Takeover Regulations, 2o11 Takeover Code. However,  public announcement was made  the appellants  this regard. The Board issued  show cause notice for the same. The appellants denied that they were PAC within the meaning  the Takeover Code  the grounds that there was serious rift between promoters. The issue  consideration  whether -promoters  , merely  reason  being -promoters, can  presumed   PAC. SAT order The Securities Appellate Tribunai SAT, relying  the decision  the   the case  Daiichi Sankyo . Ltd. 2o1o 1o3 SCL  , observed that there can   PAC unless the different groups share the common objective  purpose   substantiai acquisition  the shares  the target company. The idea   PAC  not that    fortuitous relationship coming into existence  accident  chance. Furthermore, there  sufficient evidence  show that there were disputes between the promoter groups and the onus was  the Board  prove otherwise. Accordingly, the SAT set aside the impugned order and referred the matter  the Board for   issue  fresh order. Nikhii Mansukhani SAT Order dated  May, 2o12 Indirect transfer  shares    way  settlement   trust pursuant   family arrangement  exempt with respect  Takeover Code Facts . Reddy  Holdings Ltd. DRHL was one  the promoters  . Reddy  Laboratories Limited Target Company   and held .   the . . Reddy  family held .  shares  DRHL.  Reddy  family proposed  transfer their holding  DRHL   private family trust  which  Reddy  family members are the trustees,  way  gift  settlement. Pursuant  the transfer, the shareholding  the acquirer . . the family trust along with the promoters would    . , which would result  the triggering   open offer under the SEBI Takeover Code. Exemption from making the open offer  terms  regulation    the Takeover code, was sought under regulation  . SEBI order SEBI granted  exemption  the acquirer from the requirement  making  open offer  the grounds that the transaction was taking place between the same set  individuals . . the trustees  the family trust and promoters  the . Moreover, pursuant  the aforementioned indirect acquisition there wili   change  the promoter  shareholding and also  the controi  management  the . Thus, the indirect acquisition wili not affect  prejudice the interests  the public shareholders  the   any manner. . Reddy  Laboratories Ltd Exemption order dated  May 2o12 Competition law The Competition Commission Procedure  regard  the transaction  business relating  combinations Amendment Regulations, 2o12 Amendments  Schedule  - Categories  combinations which are ordinarily not likely  cause  appreciable adverse effect  competition  India and for which notification need not normally  filed are  follows: Acquisition without controi     earlier   the totai shares voting rights Acquisition  share  voting rights pursuant  buyback  shares and subscription  rights issue  shares, not leading  acquisition  controlMergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC35 New categories: Merger amalgamation involving holding company and its subsidiary; and  mergers amalgamations involving subsidiaries, wholly owned  enterprises belonging  the same group Applicability  Forms   Form  The indicative list  instances  combinations  relation  which the former Form  could  filed was removed. Two indicative instances where Form   preferred for filing: Where the parties  the combination are engaged   similar business and the combined market share after such  combination exceeds   the relevant market; and different levels  the production chain  different markets and their individuai  combined market share exceeds   the relevant market. Form  requires the following additionai information: Value  assets and turnover,   tabular form Information earlier covered under Part    provided  ali cases Copies  approvai  the proposai  the merger  amalgamation  the board  directors and  other document executed  relation  the acquisition  acquiring  controi Summary  the combination   filed separately along with Form      least , ooo words: The summary should not include any confidentiai information, but must include details  the business, value  cumulative assets  turnover, respective markets  operations, proposai agreements and the likely impact  combination  the competition. The fees for Form  and Form  have been increased  INR  million and INR  million respectively. Form III    filed   public financiai institution, financiai institutionai investor, bank  venture capitai fund, where the acquisition  pursuant  any covenant   loan  investment agreement. Supporting document   filed with From III: Certified copy  such loan agreement  investment agreement Delayed filing  Form III with CCI: Can  condoned,  CCI  discretionCompetition Commission  India approves the amalgamation  Mauritius subsidiary into its Indian holding company Facts Tata Chemicals Ltd TCL proposed  merge its 1oo subsidiary, Wyoming  Mauritius Pvt. Ltd. Wyoming,  Mauritian company, with itself.  this regard, TCL and Wyoming collectively parties  the combination filed  notice with the Competition Commission  India CCI under Competition Act, 2oo2, for the proposed combination. The parties  the proposed combination made the following preliminary submissions that the proposed combination did not require the filing   notice with the CCI: The definition  the enterprise does not require notification  transactions between  parent company and its subsidiaries  they are effectively  single economic enterprise. The proposed combination, being  outbound stream  acquisition  TCL, would  exempt under Item   Schedule   the Combination Regulations.  the proposed combination related  acquisition  assets  Wyoming  TCL, the same would  exempt under Item   Schedule  The preliminary submissions were considered and replied   follows:  subsidiary   separate legai entity and would therefore constitute  separate enterprise under section  . Item   Schedule  relates  combinations taking place entirely outside India with  insignificant locai nexus and effect  markets  India. Since the parties  the proposed combination meet the threshold relating  assets  turnover  India and TCL   Indian party, the exemption would not  applicable. Item   Schedule  relates  acquisition and since the proposed combination  pursuant   scheme  amalgamation, the exemption under Item  would not  available. Therefore, the merger required  notification  the CCI. Thus, the parties are required  give notice  the proposed combination under the Competition Act, 2oo2. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax PwC36Ruling Upon notification, the CCI made the following observations: Both TCL and Wyoming are engaged  different business activities and there   horizontai overlap  verticai relationship between them. Ultimate controi over the activities carried   TCL and Wyoming before and after the proposed combination, remained with the management  TCL. Considering the above, the CCI held that the proposed combination  not likely  have  appreciable adverse effect  competition  India and  approved the proposed combination. GAAR Expert Committee Report  Generai Anti Avoidance Rules The Generai Anti Avoidance Rules GAAR were incorporated into the Finance Act, 2o12,  order  provide  basic framework for application  the GAAR. The GAAR are  broad set  provisions which grant powers  authorities  invalidate any arrangement where one  the main purposes   obtain  tax benefit.  this regard,  was provided  the Act that GAAR provisions would  applied  accordance with such guidelines and subject  such conditions and   manner  may  prescribed.  committee was therefore constituted which published draft guidelines   June, 2o12. Subsequently, the Prime Minister  India constituted  expert committee, under the chairmanship  . Parthasarathi Shome,  provide recommendations  implementation  the GAAR. . Shome  report was released   September 2o12. The following were the major recommendations  . Shome  expert committee: The GAAR provisions should  applicable prospectively. Implementation  the GAAR should  deferred for three years,  that they wili  applicable from  2o16-.  monetary threshold   million INR  terms  tax benefit excluding interest   taxpayer   year should  used for the applicability  the GAAR provisions. Furthermore, the tax benefit should  considered separately for each arrangement unless the arrangements are interlinked  connected with each other. Consideration  the tax consequences should  limited only  the impermissible part   arrangement. The GAAR provisions should not  applicable  every tax avoidance arrangement unless   abusive, contrived and artificiai. The committee also recommended  negative list,  make  clear when the GAAR would not  invoked. There should  grandfathering  existing investments though not  arrangements  that these regulations are not invoked  their subsequent sale. TRC should  sufficient for accepting the residentiai status   Mauritian company. The GAAR should not  invoked where Specific Anti Avoidance Rules SAAR are applicable  where anti-avoidance provisions are already present  the tax treaty The GAAR provisions should not apply   foreign institutionai investor FII   taxed according  domestic law provisions. When determining the tax consequences   impermissible avoidance arrangement,  corresponding adjustment should  allowed  the case  the same taxpayer  the same year  weli   different years,  the case may . However,  corresponding adjustment should not  allowed  the case  any other taxpayer. The administration  the AAR should  strengthened  that  advance ruling may  obtained within the time frame  six months. Mergers and AcquisitionsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Capitai Gains Depreciation Tax exemptions planning Gift  shares GAAR Corporate law developments Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Personai Tax Transfer pricing Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC38Transfer pricing Internationai update India chapter  the United Nation  draft Practicai Manuai  Transfer Pricing for Developing Countries Intent  the draft Manuai and its guiding principles The United Nations  recently released eight draft chapters  its Practicai Manuai  Transfer Pricing for developing countries the   Manuai  the Manuai. Also included  the Manuai are  foreword and  draft chapter Chapter  containing country-specific perspectives that explain the transfer pricing  administrative practices prevalent  four countries: Brazii, China, India subsequently referred   the India chapter and South Africa. The Manuai intends  address the need  developing countries for clearer guidance  the policy and administrative aspects  applying  analysis. Such guidance  intended  assist policy makers and administrators  dealing with complex  issues, and  assist taxpayers  their dealings with tax administrations. The Manuai has been developed based  the following key guiding principles:    practicai rather than  legislative modei.  reflects the realities for developing countries, and addresses reai issues   practicai way.   geared  the administrative limitations  some countries and their deficits  information, skills and resources.  aims  leverage the experience  other developing countries. Notably, the foreword  the Manuai clearly states that owing  the widespread reliance  the Organisation for Economic -operation and Development Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinationai Enterprises and Tax Administrations, July 2o1o OECD  Guidelines  both developing and developed countries, consistency with these Guidelines has been sought.  for Chapter , the foreword  the Manuai clarifies that this chapter  different from the other chapters   represents  outline  the administrative practices   particular country  described  the representatives  those countries. Accordingly,  further stated  the foreword,  consensus  Chapter  has been sought, and thus this chapter does not reflect the officiai view  the . The India chapter primarily discusses some  the emerging  issues  India  described  the Indian tax administration. Some  the India issues have been discussed  the   Manuai, while others have not been addressed  ali. The issues discussed  the India chapter are listed below: Use  contemporaneous data Allocation  risks Arm  length range Comparability adjustments Location savings Intangibles Intra-group services Financiai transactions Dispute resolution For detailed analysis  each  the above issues please refer  our News Alert dated  October 2o12. OECD releases discussion draft for revision  Chapter  intangibles  OECD  Guidelines  mid-2o1o, the OECD announced the launch   new project focusing   issues involving intangible property that  expected   completed  2o13.   June 2o12, the OECD published the first public discussion draft  the Revision  the Speciai Considerations for Intangibles  Chapter   the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines the discussion draft. The discussion draft contains proposed revisions  Chapter   the OECD Guidelines. The finai publication wili  made after considering public comments and wili replace the existing Chapter   the OECD Guidelines. The purpose  the proposed Chapter    provide guidance  the determination  arm  length conditions prices for transactions involving the use   transfer  intangibles. The discussion draft has been broadly divided into the following four sections: Part  - Identification  specific intangibles Part  - Identification  parties entitled  retain the return derived from the use  transfer  intangibles Part  - Nature  the controlled transactions and whether they involve the use  intangibles and  lead  the transfer  intangibles Internationai Update Case lawsTransfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Corporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition sPersonai Tax Transfer pricing PwC39Part  - Remuneration paid between independent parties for the use  transfer  such intangibles. For further details please refer  our News Alert dated  June, 2o12 Case laws Sharing  net revenue consistently  controlled and uncontrolled transactions held   valid comparable uncontrolled price Facts Agility Logistics Pvt. Ltd the taxpayer   logistics service provider, offering  comprehensive portfolio  internationai, domestic and specialised freight-handling services. For the freight-forwarding transactions, the taxpayer adopted  policy  sharing the net revenue . . amounts billed  the customers less third party costs between the origin and the destination companies   :  ratio. Since the policy was consistently applied  controlled and uncontrolled transactions, the taxpayer adopted the comparable uncontrolled price CUP method  determine the arm  length price ALP  the net revenue share payments  and receipts from its AEs. During the course  assessment proceedings, the transfer pricing officer TPO rejected the CUP method  stating that the application  the :  modei between the origin and destination companies  different geographicai locations would not provide  realistic comparison owing  differences  economic conditions and policies  the governments, which would affect costs and profitability.  also contended that the agreements between the related and unrelated parties were entered into   profit-split basis, and not  the basis   rate. Tribunai order The CUP method was regularly adopted  the taxpayer. The terms and conditions  the agreements with AEs and third parties were substantially the same and the profit-split information contained  ali the agreements  typicai  the industry. Geographicai differences are not materiai  far  they apply  the logistics industry. Accordingly, the Tribunai confirmed the order  the CIT  and upheld the use  the CUP method  benchmark the internationai transactions  the taxpayer. ACIT . Agility Logistics Pvt. Ltd. --ITAT-2o12 Mum CUP  the most appropriate method for determining the ALP  interest  loans Facts The taxpayer Aithent Technologies Pvt. Ltd.  engaged  the development and sale  software  its  subsidiary, . . its . The  undertakes the functions  marketing and customisation while the taxpayer  responsible for contract execution and product development. During financiai year  2oo1-,  addition  the primary internationai transaction  sale  software  its , the taxpayer had given interest-free loans denominated  USD  its  periodically, amounting  INR .  million. The taxpayer had considered the transactionai net marginai method TNMM the most appropriate method for benchmarking both transactions. With respect  the loan transaction, the taxpayer had inferred that  externai uncontrolled price was available. Therefore,  benchmark the transaction,  notionai interest amount  INR .  million was deducted from the software development income while computing the operating margin earned  the taxpayer  the internationai transaction  sale  software the taxpayer had made  assumption that the loan would fetch  interest rate    per the lending rate authorised  the RBI.  the margin was better than that  the comparables, the taxpayer concluded that both the transactions met the arm  length standard. During the course   assessment proceedings, the TPO concluded that the loan transaction was  entirely separate transaction, not  conjunction with the primary activity  the taxpayer, and hence merited  separate analysis. The TPO proceeded  make  adjustment  INR .  million, being the notionai interest cost considered,  the income  the taxpayer which was subsequently upheld  the CIT . Tribunai order The Tribunai held that  was indisputable that the loan transaction was  independent transaction, requiring the determination   ALP. Relying  the decision  the Delhi Tribunai  the case  Perot Systems TSI  Ltd. . DCIT 2o1o  SOT 358 Dei, the Tribunai opined that the CUP method was the most appropriate method  ascertain the ALP  the loan transaction. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC4o Furthermore,  observed  that case, the Tribunai held that whether the funds were advanced out  interest-bearing funds  interest  interest-free advances  were commercially expedient  the taxpayer  not was wholly irrelevant. For the purpose  applying the CUP method, the following factors are relevant: assessment  the credit quality  the borrower, estimation   credit rating and evaluation  the terms  the loan such  the period  loan, amount, currency, interest rate basis, and any additionai inputs such  convertibility and finally the estimation  the arm  length terms  the loan based upon the key comparability factors and internai and  externai comparable transactions. Considering that neither the taxpayer nor the revenue had examined the applicability  the CUP method  the most appropriate method, the Tribunai restored the matter  the file  the  TPO for fresh adjudication with direction  recompute the ALP, following the CUP method, keeping  view various judiciai pronouncements. Aithent Technologies Pvt. Ltd. . ITO 2o12 134 ITD 521 Dei Bad debts not  factor relevant  determination  ALP for royalty Facts The taxpayer  Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd. had entered into  software distribution agreement with  Management Inc. CAMI, whereby the taxpayer was appointed   distributor  CAMI  products software  third parties  India. Under the agreement, the taxpayer was liable  pay  annuai royalty  ali amounts invoiced,  the rate  . There was  dispute regarding the rate  royalty. However, royalty  sales written off  bad debts was disallowed  the TPO . The amount  bad debts included those arising  sales where the software had not worked  ali  where there were complaints regarding the quality  the products. Thus,  was held that such cases should  dealt with  the basis that  sales had been made, and therefore, royalty need not  paid  that extent. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the CIT , who rejected the taxpayer  appeai, and made similar observations  those made  the TPO . Aggrieved with the CIT   decision, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai. Tribunai order The Tribunai concluded that non-recovery  sales value from third party customers does not have  impact  the determination  the ALP  respect  the royalty transactions. High Court order The , ruled  favour  the taxpayer and confirmed the decision  the Tribunai and held  follows: Section 92C  the Income-tax Act, 1961 the Act does not, either expressly  impliedly, consider bad debts    relevant factor  determining the ALP for royalty. Also,  the absence  any statutory provision, bad debts cannot   factor relevant  the determination  ALP  the royalty transaction. Once the revenue authorities accept that the rate  royalty was not under dispute, there can   reduction  the value  royalty  account  bad debts. Unless there was  agreement  the contrary, the vendor  licensor  not concerned with the recovery  sale price from third parties. The two are distinct, unconnected transactions. The purchaser' licensee' obligation  pay royalty  not dependent upon the recovery  its sale price from customers. CIT .  Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd. 2o12 252 CTR 164 Mum ALP for sourcing services: Cost-based remuneration modei adjudged most appropriate for  limited risk procurement support service provider Facts GAP Internationai Sourcing India Pvt. Ltd. GIS India  the taxpayer   group company  the famous retaii brand GAP; the taxpayer was engaged  facilitating the sourcing  apparei from India for its group companies. The taxpayer adopted the TNMM  benchmark the service fee determined  fuli cost plus  from the foreign group company for its  documentation for FYs 2oo5- and 2oo6-. During the  audits, the TPO disregarded the Functionai, Asset and Risk FAR profile and characterisation  GIS India  assuming that the FAR profile  the taxpayer was substantially higher than those  limited risk support service providers. The TPO alleged that  cost-plus form  remuneration did not take into account substantiai intangible Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC41assets owned  the taxpayer. These intangibles were primarily construed  the TPO    the nature  human asset intangibles, supply chain intangibles and location savings. Based  this, the TPO ascertained that the taxpayer ought  have earned  commission  around   the free--board FOB value  the goods procured  the group companies. Accordingly, the TPO imposed  adjustments  INR .  billion and INR .  billion for FYs 2oo5- and 2oo6-, respectively. The  adjustments resulted  imputed returns  the operating expenses  the taxpayer  the extent  83o and 66o for FYs 2oo5-  and 2oo6-, respectively. The Dispute Resolution Panei DRP upheld the entire adjustment made  the TPO. The taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai against the totai addition  INR .  billion made for FYs 2oo5- and 2oo6- . Tribunai order FAR related FAR analysis gives the basis  characterisation, for example  manufacturer, service provider, distributor, etc. , with further sub- characterisation including  low-risk service provider, high-risk service provider, fuli-fledged manufacturer, contract manufacturer, etc. This characterisation  important for determining the ALP. The revenue authorities had not given any facts, materiai, evidence,  examples  support their claim regarding the taxpayer  FAR, . . , that  being  risk-bearing entity.  human intangibles were created for the following reasons: The revenue authorities provided  supporting materiai and only made generalised assertions  demonstrate that any   few  the employees were acclaimed personalities  were indispensable  the garment procurement trade. Their work profile did not entaii decision-making  entrepreneuriai roles. The taxpayer  employees were engaged  preordained support activities according  set guidelines and their qualifications were generai and routine.  supply chain intangibles were created for the following reasons: The revenue authorities had  discernible basis. The taxpayer  roles, activities and suppliers were already identified and the taxpayer merely followed instructions.  separate  additionai allocation was called for  account  location savings for the following reasons:  newspaper report  itself cannot assume the character  comparable data. Location savings   developing economy arise   industry   whole and there was nothing  record  show that the taxpayer was the sole beneficiary. Sourcing from low-cost countries was done  the face  stiff competition,  providing lower costs  end customers. Furthermore, the location savings advantage was passed onto end customers.  comparables were  the jurisdiction  the tested party, then location savings,  any, would  reflected  the profitability  the comparables used for benchmarking. The Tribunai considered the documentation submitted  the taxpayer providing evidence  its FAR handbook, guidelines, instructions  conclude that the taxpayer had  lack  authority  discretion  deviate from the policies procedures prescribed  the principai , and eventually held GAP India    low-risk procurement support service provider. The choice  method and profit levei indicator PLI, should not lead  manifestly absurd results,  that would lead  the creation  aberrations abnormai profits  high losses, which should  avoided  they would reflect  adversariai approach  the part  the tax administration. The ALP should reflect the commerciai and economic realities  the industry. Remuneration models  procurement service providers include the percentage commission  the value  goods procured and the cost plus mark-. Regardless  the modei however, negotiated terms would serve the best interests  both parties. Market forces wili interact and lead  reasonably acceptable profitability. For adopting  remuneration modei based  the FOB value  goods, the revenue authorities should have produced comparables for the procurement service providers that follow  percentage-based modei and earn  exorbitant mark-  costs. For preordained support services,  percentage-based modei with  significant value-added functions cannot  followed. Thus, the functionai profile  the taxpayer was different from that that  the case   Fung India Pvt. Ltd. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC42 Cost-based remuneration was appropriate for  non-risk-bearing procurement support service provider and hence, the Tribunai held that the arm  length cost plus mark- for the taxpayer should   for the both FYs 2oo5- and 2oo6-  resorting   commission-based modei    the FOB value  goods procured  the  directly from Indian vendors. GAP Internationai Sourcing India Pvt. Ltd. . ACIT -667-ITAT-2o12 Dei Editor  note: This case was overseen  PwC India  Leader, Rahui . Mitra. Mean advertising spend   company  the same industry cannot  the ALP for advertising expenditure   incurred  the taxpayer, and this  also not the correct application  TNMM Facts Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. the taxpayer  engaged  the manufacturing and export  pharmaceuticai products. Its AEs are located  Cyprus, and its internationai transactions with its AEs were export  pharmaceuticai products and reimbursement  business promotion expenditure. The TPO accepted the former transaction, but proposed  adjustment  the latter  curtailing business promotion expenditure reimbursed  the taxpayer  its AEs    totai sales,   believed that the business promotion expenditure incurred  the taxpayer was unusually high  .   sales. The TPO alleged that the earnings  India were being transferred  the AEs  they were located   tax haven. Since the taxpayer ultimately sold  the Ukraine market but routed the sales through its Cyprus AEs, the TPO urged the   investigate the business promotion expenditure   appeared doubtfui  first glance. The TPO rejected the CUP method adopted  the taxpayer and instead applied the TNMM. The TPO compared the advertising and marketing   expenses incurred   top pharmaceuticai companies with the business promotion expenditure incurred  the taxpayer. The arithmetic mean  the   expenses   percentage  sales for ali  companies were compared  the TPO  the business promotion expenditure  the taxpayer   percentage  sales. The TPO proposed  adjustment  the taxpayer  business promotion expenditure, which was  excess    sales. Aggrieved with the TPO  order, the taxpayer appealed  the CIT . The CIT  deleted the addition. Aggrieved with the order  the CIT , the revenue authorities appealed before the Tribunai. Tribunai order  method can  rejected without giving cogent reasons. The TPO has  explain why the CUP method  not applicable, and why the TNMM was considered appropriate.  the immediately preceding , the TPO had accepted the method adopted  the taxpayer. Taking the arithmetic mean  the percentage    expenditure  the top  pharmaceuticai companies  the industry average and applying this  the arm  length percentage  expenditure that should  incurred  the taxpayer  not the correct application  the TNMM. Such  arithmetic mean cannot  the ALP. Furthermore, there  nothing common that has been brought out between the taxpayer and these companies, . . ,  analysis  the type  drug, nature  markets, period  advertisement, etc. The primary benefit  the   expenditure belongs  the taxpayer the manufacturer  the product, and the expense should also  incurred  the taxpayer. The TPO  role  limited  determining the ALP, while the   required  evaluate the genuineness  expenditure and compute the totai income relating  the ALP. Permission granted  the RBI, payments being audited and routed through banking channels, and the TPO not producing evidence  show that money paid  AEs was partly returned  the taxpayer, are not grounds based  which  appeai can  allowed    adjustment determined. ACIT . Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. -326-ITAT-2o12 Mum For attribution  profits   , the  cannot apply Rule  without rejecting the  study for correct reasons Facts The taxpayer,  project office  Hyundai Rotem Company, Korea the taxpayer, provided liaison, -ordination, and administrative support services  its head office,  connection with  contract being executed  India. The income  the project office was computed   cost-plus  basis, and this was supported    study. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC43 There are three years under consideration, . . ,  2oo2-, 2oo3-  and 2oo4-.   study was undertaken for each  these years. For  2oo4-, the TPO accepted the  study carried out  the taxpayer and found the internationai transactions    arm  length. However,  the case   2oo2- and  2oo3-, the case was not referred  the   the TPO. The  did not accept the cost-plus methodology adopted  the taxpayer and instead determined the income  applying Rule . The  adopted  globai formulary apportionment approach  order  determine the income attributable  the project office. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed  the CIT  who upheld the   approach. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai. Tribunai order For the purpose  computing income   , the methodology provided under  Regulations sections   92F  the Act read with Rules 1oA  1oE  the Income-tax Rules, 1962 the Rules  preferred over the procedure provided under Rule   the Rules read with section   the Act. Rule  can  applied  cases where the income  the  cannot  definitely ascertained and the  has  demonstrate this. The  cannot simply proceed  apply Rule  without rejecting the  study undertaken  the taxpayer. For rejecting the  study, the  must provide reasons and evidence. Profits attributable    shali  determined  the same method each year unless there  sufficient reason not   . Reliance  this case was placed  Article    the India-Korea tax treaty and the fact that the revenue authorities had accepted the taxpayer  methodology  subsequent AYs. Hyundai Rotem Company . ADIT -612-ITAT-2o12 Dei Resale price method not TNMM  appropriate for distribution; losses are  account  business strategy; and there   motive  shift profits  margins  AEs are ali reasonable Facts The taxpayer  oreai India Pvt. Ltd.   1oo subsidiary   oreai  France and  engaged  manufacturing and distribution  cosmetics and beauty products. The taxpayer  business was accordingly segregated into manufacturing and distribution segments, which have been separately benchmarked for  purposes.  adjustment was made  the TPO  respect  the manufacturing segment. However,  respect  the distribution segment, . .  respect  the internationai transaction  purchase  finished goods, the taxpayer had applied the resale price method RPM benchmarking the gross margin  the taxpayer  .  against that  the comparables  . . The TPO rejected the application  the RPM  the taxpayer and instead adopted the TNMM.  adjustment was made  the basis  the operating margin  comparables  . ,  against the taxpayer  loss  - . . Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed  the CIT . The CIT  deleted the adjustment, aggrieved with which the revenue authorities appealed  the Tribunai. Tribunai order There was  hierarchy  methods. The RPM  one  the standard methods and  the most appropriate when the taxpayer buys products from its AEs and sells  unrelated parties without any further processing  value addition with reliance placed upon the OECD  Guidelines. Losses incurred  the taxpayer were  account  the business strategy  the taxpayer and the initiai years  the distribution activity, rather than the non-arm  length . The taxpayer had  motive  shift profits  the AEs earn reasonable margins      even less  their supplies  the taxpayer with reliance placed  certificates from the AEs indicating the margin earned. The RPM had been accepted  the TPO  the preceding  weli  the succeeding AYs and should therefore  acceptable  the current year  weli. ACIT .  oreai India Pvt. Ltd. -7o3-ITAT-2o12 Mum Tribunai upholds important  principles  characterisation and rewards for selling activity Facts Mastek Ltd taxpayer   globai software solutions provider and provides offshore and onsite solutions  clients.  had  subsidiary called Mastek Ltd   MUK, which acted   distributor for the software solutions  the taxpayer  the  and earned  return  sales operating margins. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC44  its  analysis, the taxpayer selected MUK  the tested party and benchmarked the return  sales with comparable distributors. During the course  assessment proceedings, the TPO -characterised MUK   pure marketing service provider  stating that the functions  MUK were purely marketing activities and MUK did not bear any inventory, foreign exchange and profit risk. The TPO accordingly considered comparable marketing service providers and applied their operating profit value-added expenses  VAE  MUK  VAE and computed   adjustment. The DRP upheld the order  the TPO. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai. Tribunai order Agreements between parties based  commerciai expediency cannot  disregarded without assigning  cogent reason  unless the agreement was not genuine. Based  the facts, MUK was not merely  customer-facing entity but was   position  negotiate with customers and handle the scope and timing  deliverables. MUK had successfully endeavoured  improve the revenue generation and had among other things, paid commission  its employees  sales. Furthermore, MUK had assumed market and credit risk. Consequently, MUK had acted   distributor rather than   marketing service provider. Accordingly, the return  sales  benchmark MUK was  reliable PLI. Furthermore, the return--sales methodology created  incentive for MUK  generate more revenue which considered the respective advantages  both the parties necessitated  the significant share  revenue generated  the taxpayer from the . The Tribunai noted that the distributors were not always required  have  fluctuating percentage  profit.  other words,  fixed percentage  profit would stili lead   fluctuating levei  absolute profits based  the sales generated. Relying  the  HMRC Guidance, the Tribunai concluded that distributors would need   compensated   return--sales basis and not   cost-plus basis. The OECD  guidelines emphasise functionai similarities over product similarities and accordingly, the taxpayer  comparability analysis identifying comparable distributors  software products was appropriate. Mastek Ltd . DCIT -693-ITAT-2o12 Ahd CUP upheld   the most appropriate method for benchmarking broking transactions; arithmetic mean and not weighted average   considered for determining ALP; adjustments for differences  volume and functions need   considered Facts RBS Equities India Ltd the assessee  engaged  the business  broking and trading  shares   corporate member  the Bombay Stock Exchange and the Nationai Stock Exchange. The assessee had provided stock broking services  its , which   foreign institutionai investor FII.  the  documentation, the assessee had used the TNMM  the most appropriate method MAM  benchmark the said transaction. During the course  the assessment proceedings, the TPO held the CUP  the MAM  benchmark the said transaction and made  adjustment  using the simple average broking commission rate commission rate charged  the top  FIIs against the weighted average commission rate charged  the   the assessee. The assessee contended that  the CUP was   used  the MAM, then appropriate adjustments should  made for differences  volume, marketing function and research function. The CIT  upheld the order  TPO. Tribunai order For stock broking services rendered  the taxpayer  the   FII, the use  the CUP method over the TNMM was upheld, primarily owing  the availability   internai CUP. Another factor which may have been considered relevant  the Tribunai was that the taxpayer was undertaking trades for the AEs and FIIs, which operated from similar geographies, without being present  India, and their perception  the Indian market  terms  risks and rewards would  the same. The first proviso  section 92C refers  the arithmetic mean. There was nothing  suggest that the volume  relevant transactions has   taken for computing such arithmetic mean. There   provision  the statute that allows taking the weighted average arithmetic mean for determining the ALP. Therefore, the taxpayer  contention  adopt the weighted average arithmetic mean  brokerage rate  comparables the top  FIIs,  against the simple average arithmetic mean  such rates taken  the TPO, cannot  accepted. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC45 Following Rule 1oB   , the claim  the taxpayer for adjustment for marketing function, research function and differences  volumes should  considered  their merits after verifying details and documentary evidence submitted  the taxpayer  support. RBS Equities India Ltd . ACIT -661-ITAT-2o12 Mum Managing directors remuneration should  allocated between tax holiday units; implications under domestic transfer pricing provisions need   considered Facts Nahar Spinning Mills Ltd the taxpayer operated nine different units,  which the taxpayer claimed deductions under section 1oB  the Act for two units referred   tax holiday units  eligible units. The managing director   remuneration was debited  the main unit and  part  this expense was allocated  the tax holiday units. The  held that the assessee had claimed  excessive deduction  not allocating the   remuneration  the tax holiday units and recomputed the tax holiday profits. The CIT  upheld the order  the . Tribunai order Sections -  and -   the Act are not applicable  this case. Section -   the Act applies where goods and services held for the purpose  eligible business are transferred  any other business carried   the taxpayer  vice versa.  the taxpayer  case, goods and services had not been transferred between the units  the taxpayer and accordingly section -   the Act should not apply. Section -   the Act refers  the close connection between the taxpayer carrying  eligible business and any other person. Accordingly,  transaction  -allocation  the   remuneration from one unit  the taxpayer  another  not covered  section -   the Act. However, under the provisions  section 1oB, ali expenditure relating  the eligible unit should  deducted while computing the eligible profits derived from the undertaking. Thus, the remuneration paid  the , being  common expenditure, should  allocated  the eligible units for computing tax holiday profits. PwC observations This ruling suggests that the allocation  common expenditure  tax holidays units,  the extent that  does not qualify  provision  services,  not covered  section -   the Act. Consequently, while taxpayers wili need  adopt  scientific approach  determine the allocation  common expenses and maintain documentation supporting them, such transactions may not  covered under the recently specified domestic transaction provisions.  such cases, taxpayers are advised  develop and maintain the following documents  help defend the allocation:  appropriate cost allocation policy  description  the nature  costs and  explanation   why these  not qualify  provision  services. This approach wili help taxpayers address the implications  the onerous compliance requirements enforced through domestic transfer pricing provisions. Nahar Spinning Mills Ltd . JCIT -622-ITAT-2o12 Chd More profit from related parties than unrelated parties does not itself make the profit more than ordinary electricity board rates also used  support; profit comparison   done for individuai related parties Facts OPG Energy Pvt Ltd the taxpayer claimed  deduction under section -  the Act, which was restricted  the , who claimed that the taxpayer had earned more than ordinary profits  selling  related parties   higher price than that charged  unrelated parties. The Tribunai, while ruling  favour  the taxpayer, laid down the following principles:   taxpayer earns more profit from related parties  comparison  unrelated parties, that does not  itself make the profit from related parties more than ordinary. Profit realised  the taxpayer  charging rates  related parties lower than the rate charged   government undertaking  state electricity board cannot  said   more than ordinary. Comparison  profit realised from one  more related parties must  undertaken for each party separately. Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC46PwC observations While comparing the profits  the taxpayer, the Tribunai has considered profits derived from rates charged  unrelated parties and those charged   state electricity board. The profit  the taxpayer derived from rates  between these two benchmarks, . . , higher than the former and lower than the latter. The Tribunai, therefore,  essence, considered  range  profits  conclude that the taxpayer was not earning more than ordinary profits. Notably, the terminology used  section -   the Act  ordinary profits  the plurai rather than just ordinary profit  the singular, thereby implying the use   range rather than  single reference point. Hence,  may  inferred that the legislation itself endorses the use   range. However,  light  the recent amendments made  the Finance Act, 2o12, the existing transfer pricing regulations have been made applicable  the determination  profits from transactions  tax holiday units with closely connected person . The regulations provide for  concept   arithmetic mean with  narrow tolerance band.  fact, had the arithmetic mean been applied instead  the approach adopted  the Tribunai,  could have been detrimentai  the taxpayer. Accordingly, from the taxpayer  perspective, one would expect  liberai interpretation  transfer pricing regulations when applied  determine the more than ordinary profits earned  tax holiday units. Comparison  profits realised from individuai related parties  has been considered  the Tribunai  this instant case may pose practicai difficulties and may not always  feasible  even required. OPG Energy Pvt Ltd  DCIT -382-ITAT-2o12 Chennai Various factors   evaluated when pricing guarantee commission; universai application   particular rate rejected, and instead, internai CUP accepted Facts Everest Kanto Cylinder Ltd the taxpayer provided  guarantee for  loan taken  its . For this, the taxpayer charged .  guarantee commission  the . The TPO rejected .  and applied   the arm  length guarantee commission. The CIT  upheld the adjustment made  the TPO. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai. Tribunai order  view  the amendment  the definition   internationai transaction introduced  the Finance Act, 2o12, provision  guarantee   internationai transaction. Thus, the methods prescribed  the statute become applicable for determining its arm  length price. Charging  guarantee commission varies from transaction  transaction, and  dependent  the terms and conditions  the loan, risk undertaken, relationship between the bank and the client, economic and business interests, etc.  universai application   for guarantee commission cannot  upheld  every case, and the use   naked quote, available  the taxpayer  website,   externai comparable,  inappropriate.  guarantee commission  .  charged  the  was accepted based   internai comparable  .  guarantee commission paid  the taxpayer  its locai bank for  letter  credit arrangement. The difference  .  was ignored   was considered  derive from the difference  the rate  interest charged under the two arrangements. Everest Kanto Cylinder Ltd . DCIT -714-ITAT-2o12 Mum - Weighted deduction available for   expenditure incurred outside the approved facility Profit  tax holiday unit computed  considering actuai sale price and costs attributable  , including  costs allocation Facts Cadila Healthcare Ltd, the taxpayer, was  the business  manufacturing and trading pharmaceuticals goods, diagnostic kits, medicai instruments, etc. The taxpayer had  unit  Baddi, Himachai Pradesh, for which  was claiming  deduction under section -  the Act. The taxpayer also had  unit  Goa, for which the taxpayer was claiming  deduction under section -  the Act. During the course  assessment proceedings, the  proposed the following adjustments  the totai income: Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC47 Disallowance  weighted deduction under section  2AB  the Act claimed  the company with respect  expenditure incurred  clinicai trials and  bio-equivalence study conducted outside the approved   facility. Curtailment  the amount  deduction claimed  the company under sections - and -  the Act  relation  its Goa and Baddi units respectively  the  believed that these units were earning abnormally high profits. According  the , the indirect cost had not been allocated  these units. According  the , the units carried out manufacturing activity and transferred the goods  the marketing division  the head office. Therefore, they should have been entitled  the remuneration  cost and  reasonable profit. The , accordingly, computed profits attributable  the manufacturing activity alone. These disallowances were upheld  the DRP. Tribunai order Weighted deduction under section  2AB  the Act  available  the expenditure incurred  the taxpayer  clinicai trials and the bio- equivalence study conducted outside the approved   facility. Deduction under section - and section -  the Act  available  the profit earned  the eligible unit from the overali activity, and the  cannot segregate manufacturing and sale activity  compute deductions under the respective sections. The relevant provision  the Act does not suggest that the eligible profit should  computed first  transferring the product   imaginary sale price  the head office for the head office  then seli the product  the open market. There   such concept  segregation  profit. Profit   undertaking  always computed  taking into account the sale price  the product  the market. PwC observations This decision  relevant for pharmaceuticai companies where some part  the   process  carried out outside the approved facility. Furthermore,  relation  the tax holiday claim, the following principles have been laid out:  compute  price for the transfer  goods  services from  unit enjoying tax holiday  the non-eligible unit  the taxpayer,  actuai transfer   pre-condition. Where the sale from the unit enjoying tax holiday  the only source  income, the profit  the unit should  computed  considering the sale price  goods  services and costs attributable  effect such  sale including allocation  head office costs. Effective  2o12-, transfer pricing provisions wili apply  transactions involving the transfer  goods and services undertaken  units enjoying tax holiday  non-eligible units  the taxpayer. Accordingly, the above principles laid down  the Tribunai wili need   followed  consonance with transfer pricing regulations. Cadila Healthcare Ltd . Addi CIT -354-ITAT-2o12 Ahd Income from  domestic related party cannot  adjusted  applying transfer pricing provisions under section 4oA   the Act Facts Durga Rice and Gen Mills, the taxpayer,   the business  running  rice mili and selling rice bran. During the year, the taxpayer sold rice bran  its domestic related party. The  challenged the rate used claiming  was lower than the rate charged  other independent third parties for the sale   similar product. The  accordingly proposed  adopt  higher rate based  available comparable prices. The taxpayer contended that the sale value  rice bran depends  its quality and that the sales made  the domestic related party were  comparable rates. The  rejected the taxpayer  arguments and made  adjustment  the profit  the taxpayer  considering the average sale price realised  independent parties. Aggrieved, the taxpayer appealed  the CIT , who upheld the findings  the . The taxpayer appealed before the Tribunai against the order  CIT . Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Transfer pricing PwC48 Tribunai order   settled law that section 4oA   the Act cannot  applied  add  the difference  the value  sales made   domestic related party. Section 4oA   the Act  restricted  disallowance  expenditure value. Relying  the findings  the Supreme Court  the case  CIT . Glaxo Smithkline Asia  Ltd 2o1o 195 Taxman  , the Tribunai held that the CBDT Revenue also acknowledges that suitable amendments are required   made  section 4oA   the Act  transfer pricing provisions are required   applied  domestic transactions between related parties and adjustments  account  the difference  sale value effected  the taxpayer  comparison  the fair market value are undertaken. Given this, the provisions  section 4oA   the Act cannot  attracted  the taxpayer  case. PwC observations The ruling  the Tribunai clearly brings out the principle that the provisions  section 4oA   the Act  not grant powers  the   adjust income reported   taxpayer from domestic related parties. Following the observations  the Supreme Court  the case  Glaxo Smithkline Asia  Ltd above, the Finance Act, 2o12 has amended section 4oA   the Act  provide that transfer pricing provisions wili apply  determine the reasonableness  expenditure incurred  relation  domestic related parties. Accordingly, compliance with related transfer pricing provisions would have   undertaken, with effect from  Aprii 2o12.   relevant  note that these amendments have not extended the scope  section 4oA   the Act  income earned from domestic related parties.  fact, the Memorandum  the Finance Bili, 2o12 explaining the amendments, noted that extending transfer pricing requirements  ali domestic transactions wili lead  increases  the compliance burden  ali assessees, which  undesirable. Taxpayers earning income from related parties should, however,  cognisant   potentiai adverse impact   group where  related party making payment   taxpayer faces  disallowance  the payment under section 4oA   the Act but  corresponding reduction  income  not available  the taxpayer.  holistic review  the pricing policy  transactions between domestic related parties and  coordinated effort towards robust transfer pricing documentation   paramount importance. Durga Rice and Gen Mills .  -446-ITAT-2o12 Chandi Internationai Update Case lawsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Indirect taxes Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Indirect taxes PwC5oCase laws Service tax Retrospective applicability  service tax  renting immovable property services  within the legislative competence  Parliament Against the order  the Delhi   the case  Home Solution Retaii India Ltd . UOI 2oo9 237 . . . 2o9,  speciai leave petition SLP was filed and was pending before the . However, the legislature, without waiting for the decision  the SLP, amended the definition  taxable service defined under the renting  immovable property service  the Finance Act 2o1o. Taxable service was defined  include any service provided    provided  any person,  any other person,  renting  immovable property. This amendment was given retrospective effect from  June 2oo7. This amendment  weli  its retrospective effect was under challenge. The main argument was that the amendment was not clear but creates  substantive liability  taxation upon service providers. The Madhya Pradesh   Entertainment World Developers Ltd . UOI 2o12  . . . 231 held that Parliament  right  legislate and create liabilities  rights with retrospective effect can  curtailed only   restriction placed upon the legislative power  Parliament  the provisions  the Constitution  India.  provision  the Constitution was shown which restricts the right  Parliament  legislate retrospectively creating  tax liability. Therefore, retrospective applicability  service tax  the renting  immovable services was within the legislative competence  Parliament. Service tax paid  exempt services can  claimed  refund The Mumbai Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunai CESTAT  the case  Crown Products Pvt Ltd . CCE 2o12 TIOL 975 has held that there   bar  the Finance Act 1994 service tax  the assessee from paying tax  exempt services and claiming refund thereafter afterwards.  was also held that section    the Centrai Excise Act, 1944 prohibits the payment  tax  respect  exempted goods and not service tax  services. The term business need not necessarily imply  profit element The Punjab Haryana   the case  Punjab -Servicemen Corporation . UOI 2o12  . . . 122 held that for taxing statutes the term business need not necessarily imply  profit element and would cover ali services undertaken   matter  occupation. Trademark licensing agreement  not  transfer  right  use  sale  goods  the case  Eicher Good Earth Ltd . CST 2o12-TIOL-579, the Delhi CESTAT held that  trademark licensing agreement  not  transfer  right  use  sale  goods but only  permission for temporary use  the trademark which continues   the property  the licensor and  chargeable  service tax under the category  intellectuai property services. Income tax paid  India  behalf   foreign service provider    included  the gross amount for payment  service tax   reverse charge basis  the case  TVS Motor Company Ltd . CCE 2o12 TIOL 1639, the Madras CESTAT held the following: The liability  pay service tax  services received from outside India   reverse charge basis under section 66A  the Finance Act, 1994 arises only from  Aprii 2oo6. Where the consideration for such services are paid net  taxes, the amount  income tax directly deposited  the service receiver  India  behalf  the foreign service provider should  included  the gross amount for service tax valuation purposes. Permitting the use   trademark, though   permanent basis, would stili qualify  intellectuai property rights services The Delhi CESTAT  the case  Eicher Good Earth Ltd . CST 2o12  . . . 279 has held that the transaction  permitting the use  the trademark Eicher for limited purposes but permanently, while  stili remains the property  the licensor and the licensee  bound  the conditions  transfer  perpetuity, would qualify  intellectuai property right services and  liable  service tax. Customs and foreign trade policy Refund  speciai additionai duty cannot  denied where imported goods are given  consumers   right  use basis The Delhi CESTAT  the case   . Reliance Communications Infrastructure Ltd 2o12-TIOL-499, held that the refund  speciai additionai duty SAD cannot  denied where imported goods are not sold but are given  consumers   right  use basis since the transfer  the right  use  covered under the definition  sale provided under various sales tax value added tax VAT acts and  considered  deemed sale. Case laws Circulars and NotificationsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Indirect taxes PwC51Customs duty  levied according  the rates applicable  software The Bangalore CESTAT  the case  Bharti Airtei Ltd .  2o12 -TIOL- 746, held that the value  software    included  the value  the hardware,  the case software  pre-loaded  hardware  arrive  the assessable value for the purposes  the levy  customs duty. The duty  levied wili  according  the rates applicable  hardware. SAD  applicable  the case   VAT exemption  American Power Conversion Pvt Ltd . CCE 2o12 28o ELT 139, the Bangalore CESTAT held that where  export-oriented unit has been given speciai dispensation  the state government from the levy  VAT  sales tax, such units wili not  exempt from SAD  domestic tariff area clearances. This   the basis that such units  not fulfii the condition  exemption notification, which stipulates that   exempt from SAD the goods should not  exempt from VAT  sales tax. Importer  entitled  claim the benefit under the  notification that provides the higher benefit While relying  the decision  the  ruling  various cases, the Ahmedabad CESTAT,  the case   . Mangalam Alloys Ltd 2o12-TIOL- 737 held that where there are two exemption notifications that cover goods, the importer  entitled  the benefit  the exemption notification that gives him  her higher relief. Customs authorities cannot unilaterally alter the amount   duty entitlement pass book scheme scrip issued  DGFT authorities  the basis  export documents The Bangalore CESTAT,  the case   Reddy  Laboratories Ltd .  2o12 284 ELT 545 has held that the freight charges including fuei surcharge charges, security charge for carrier, etc. are   deducted from the cost insurance freight value  order  arrive  the free  board value  exported goods. Furthermore, the customs authorities cannot unilaterally alter the amount  duty entitlement pass book scheme scrip issued  the DGFT authorities  the basis  export documents. Such modification can  done only  referring the matter  the DGFT authorities. VAT Delhi VAT provisions  not provide for  sub-contractor' deduction from the main contractor  turnover The Delhi   the case  Larsen and Toubro Ltd and another . UOI 2o12 VIL--DEL upheld the validity  the Delhi VAT provision which does not provide for  sub-contractor  deduction  the hands  the main contractor  such deduction  available through  separate mechanism  claiming input tax credit  the VAT charged  the sub-contractor. Goods kept   customs bonded warehouse deemed   outside the customs frontier  India The   the case  Hotei Ashoka . ACCT 2o12 VIL   held that sales  duty free shops situated  internationai airports both  inbound and outbound passengers were made before after the goods have crossed the customs frontiers  India. Consequently, such sales are not liable  sales tax  they qualify  sale  the course  imports exports covered  section   the CST Act 1956. Import  goods for leasing purposes  India are not liable  VAT The Madras   case  State  Tamii Nadu . Karnataka Bank Ltd 2o12  VST  Mad held that transactions involving import  goods from outside India for leasing   Indian client   monthly rentai basis qualify  lease  the course  import  long  there exists  inextricable link between the import  goods and their subsequent lease  India. Sale and lease back transaction structured  raise funds  carry out business  substance   financiai transaction not liable  VAT The Karnataka   the case  State  Karnataka . Khoday India Ltd 2o12--VST-2o4 held that  sale and lease back transaction executed  raise the requisite funds for carrying out business   substance  loan transaction not liable  VAT. The Court has the power  scrutinise the documents and determine the nature  the transaction, whatever  the form  the documents. Case laws Circulars and NotificationsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Indirect taxes PwC52Free  cost replacement  spare parts  liable  sales tax The Mumbai   the case  Navnit Motors Pvt Ltd . State  Maharashtra 2o12  VST 511 relying  the  decision  Mohd. Ekram Khan and Sons . Commissioner  Trade Tax 2oo4 136 STC 515  held that the transactions involving free  cost replacement  spare parts under the warranty arrangement where the cost  such spare parts are subsequently reimbursed  the manufacturer  issue   credit note are covered under the definition  sales and hence liable  sales tax. Excise Centrai value-added tax credit cannot  denied  capitai goods used initially  the manufacture  exempted goods The Karnataka   the case  CCE . Kailash Auto Builders Ltd 2o12 28o ELT 949 held that centrai value added tax CENVAT credit  capitai goods used for the manufacture   dutiable and exempted finai product cannot  denied merely because  the beginning such capitai goods were used only  the manufacture  exempted goods. CENVAT credit  admissible  goods transport agency services used for bringing empty containers  Century Rayon . CCE 2o12 28o ELT 561, the Mumbai CESTAT has held that CENVAT credit  admissible  goods transport agency services used for bringing empty containers  the factory and thereafter transporting the loaded containers  the port  export and not splitting these charges wili not disentitle the CENVAT credit. Cost accountant  report can  referred  where the transaction value  not the sole consideration The   the case  Fiat India Pvt Ltd 2o12-TIOL--- held that selling cars   wholesale price which  less than the cost  production, even     counter the competition  the market, cannot  considered  sale   normai price. Since here the transaction value  not the sole consideration and the assessing authority was not able  derive value for the extra consideration, there  nothing wrong  their resorting  best judgement assessment and arriving   value,  the basis  the cost accountant  report. Circulars and notifications Service tax Introduction  negative list approach Entry   List   the VII schedule  Article 246  the Constitution  India entrusts upon  residuary power  the centrai government the ability  formulate laws which have not been included  List     the said schedule. The centrai government  the year 1994 introduced entry . 92C 'tax  services'. Chapter   the Finance Act, 1994 encompasses the provision relating  the taxation  services. The said regime evolved over  period  years with the scope  taxable services expanding  118 services. The Budget 2o12 ushered  new system  taxation  services, commonly known  the negative list approach. The Centrai Board  Excise Customs CBEC has come out with  series  notifications  appoint  July 2o12  the effective date for applicability  service taxation based  the negative list approach. Important changes under the said approach are  follows: The earlier provisions related  classification  services  the Finance Act 1994 have been made inoperative and are replaced with the concept  the negative list approach. The government also defined the term 'service', which also included defining the term 'declared service' and excluded certain transactions. Service tax shali now  levied  ali services 'provided  agreed   provided'  the taxable territory, other than the services specified  the negative list and mentioned  the mega exemption notification wherein outright exemption from service tax has been provided   services. The concept  'bundled services' was also introduced. The government replaced the Export  Service Rules 2oo5 and Taxation  Services provided from outside India and received  India Rules 2oo6 commonly known  Import Rules   set   new rules known  'Place  Provision  Service Rules 2o12'  means  which the place  provision   service would  determined. Case laws Circulars and NotificationsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Indirect taxes PwC53 The government has also removed the concept  composition scheme under the work contract service. The government has also introduced the reverse charge mechanism  certain domestically procured services. Amendments have been made  the Point  Taxation Rules, 2o11    bring them  line with the new regime  service tax. Service tax notification  .  2o12   2o12 dated  June 2o12,  2o12, . 2o12,  2o12 and  2o12 dated  June 2o12  service tax  amounts  foreign currency remitted  India from overseas The CBEC has clarified that there   service tax   levied per   amounts  foreign currency remitted  India from overseas.   merely  transaction  money, excluded from the definition  'service' effective from  July 2o12. Circular  163  2o12- dated  July 2o12 Customs foreign trade policy Refund  terminai excise duty available  deemed exports can  claimed  the recipient  goods  production  documents The centrai government has provided that the refund  terminai excise duty TED available  deemed exports can also  claimed  the recipient  the goods  production   appropriate disclaimer   obtained from the supplier  goods specified  form ANF-. This public notice shali  effective from  March 2o11. The format  ABF- has also been issued. Public notice   -2o12 2oo9-2o14 dated  November 2o12List  products eligible for concessionai basic customs duty amended The centrai government has amended the list  products eligible for concessionai basic customs duty  their import under the following agreements: India-Japan Free Trade Agreement South Asian Free Trade Agreement India-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement India-Malaysia Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement Customs notification  124 2o11  128 2o11 dated  December CENVAT Interest not payable  use  wrong CENVAT credit The government substituted the words taken  utilised wrongly  the words taken and utilised wrongly  Rule   CENVAT Credit Rules, 2oo4    provide clarity  the applicability  interest  the wrong use  CENVAT credit. This implies that   person avails CENVAT credit and subsequently utilises , then the interest shali  payable from the date  utilisation.    she reverses ,  interest shali  payable. Excise notification  2o12 dated  March 2o12 Case laws Circulars and NotificationsCorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC55Regulatory FEMA Contraventions Compounding  contraventions under FEMA For the purpose  achieving operationai convenience, the RBI has stipulated that the following contraventions under FEMA wili  compounded  its Regionai Offices: Contraventions for compounding Amount involved  contraventionPossible action Delay  reporting  inward remittance Sub-regulation     Schedule   FEMA  2ooo- Delay  filing  form -GPR Sub- regulation     Schedule   FEMA  2ooo- Delay  issue  shares beyond 18o days Sub-regulation   Schedule   FEMA  2ooo- Without any limit Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai  New Delhi Delay  reporting  inward remittance Sub-regulation     Schedule   FEMA  2ooo- Delay  filing  form -GPR Sub- regulation     Schedule   FEMA  2ooo-   INR  million Bhopai, Bhubaneshwar, Chandigarh, Guwahati, Jaipur, Jammu, Kanpur, Kochi, Patna  Panaji Contravention not covered above,  per provisions  FEMA Centrai Office  RBI, Mumbai  bring about uniformity and completeness  compounding applications, the RBI has specified  format for relevant information, documentation and undertaking   submitted  applicants. This applies  contravention  the regulations mentioned above  weli  regulations pertaining  overseas direct investments, externai commerciai borrowings ECB and branch liaison offices.  DIR Series circular .  dated  July 2o12Regulation and Management  FEMA Trade credits for imports  capitai goods  infrastructure sector The RBI has permitted companies  the infrastructure sector where infrastructure   defined under the extant guidelines  ECB  avaii trade credit    maximum period  five years enhanced from three years for import  capitai goods subject  the following: Minimum period  trade credit must   least fifteen months. However,  should not   the nature  short-term roli-overs  Authorised Dealer banks wili not  permitted  issue letters  credit, guarantees, letter  undertaking, letter  comfort  favour  overseas supplier, bank and financiai institution for the extended period beyond three years Ali--cost ceilings shali remain  35o basis points over six months LIBOR for the respective currency. . . DIR Series circular .  dated 11th September, 2o12 Revised format for annuai return  foreign liabilities and assets reporting  Indian companies   filed   before  July 2o12 The RBI has issued  circular   March 2o11 whereby Indian companies which have received FDI Foreign Direct Investment and  made overseas investments are required  submit  annuai return  foreign liabilities and assets. The RBI has now provided  revised format  the annuai return   soft form with -built validations. The soft forms should  filled, validated and sent  -maii   July annually. . . DIR Series RBI 2o11- 613 circular . 133 dated  June 2o12 RBI -opens foreign currency convertible bonds buyback window The RBI has continued its scheme  prepayment buyback  foreign currency convertible bonds FCCB. The RBI now wili consider proposals from Indian companies for buyback  FCCBs under the approvai route subject  the following conditions: The buyback value  FCCBs    minimum discount    the accreted value. FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC56  the case the issuer  planning  raise  foreign currency borrowing for buyback  FCCBs, ali applicable rules regulations relating  foreign currency borrowing under FEMA wili need   complied with. Other generai conditions stipulated  paragraph   RBI   DIR Series circular   dated  December 2oo8 such : extant guidelines should  complied with, FCCB should  registered with the RBI,  proceedings for contravention  FEMA against the company should exist, etc The facility  effective from the date  the circular and the entire process  buyback should  completed   March 2o13 after which the scheme lapses.  completion  the buyback,  report giving details  buyback, such  the outstanding amount  FCCBs, accreted value  FCCBs bought back, rate  which FCCBs bought back, amount involved, and source   funds may  submitted, through the designated  bank  the RBI.   DIR circular   dated  July 2o12, circular  dated  January, 2o12 Externai Commerciai Borrowing Externai Commerciai Borrowing - Repayment  Rupee loans and  fresh Rupee capitai expenditure USD  billion scheme  per the extant guidelines, the maximum permissible ECB that can  availed    individuai company under the scheme  limited   per cent  the average annuai export earnings realised during the past three financiai years.   review,  has been decided:  enhance the maximum permissible limit  ECB that can  availed    per cent  the average foreign exchange earnings realised during the immediate past three financiai years   per cent  the highest foreign exchange earnings realised  any  the immediate past three financiai years, whichever  higher;  case  Speciai Purpose Vehicles SPVs, which have completed  least one year  existence from the date  incorporation and  not have sufficient track record past performance for three financiai years, the maximum permissible ECB that can  availed  wili  limited   per cent  the annuai export earnings realised during the past financiai year; and The maximum ECB that can  availed   individuai company  group,   whole, under this scheme wili  restricted  USD  billion. . . DIR Series circular .  dated 11th September, 2o12 ECB for replacing bridge finance availed  infrastructure companies Presently, infrastructure companies are allowed  import capitai goods  availing  short-term credit including buyers  suppliers credit  the nature  bridge finance under the approvai route provided the bridge finance  replaced   ECB with the prior approvai  the RBI. Thus,  required RBI approvai  two stages .  while availing bridge finance and while replacing  with ECB . . DIR Series Circular .  dated 11th September, 2o12 The RBI has liberalised the ECB policy  permit replacement  bridge finance  the nature  buyers  suppliers credit   ECB under the automatic route, provided   refinanced before the maximum permissible period  trade credit and the bili  entry  available for verification. Relaxation  ECB-liability debt -equity ratio and percentage  shareholding: Automatic route ECB can  availed  successfui bidders under the automatic route from their ultimate parent company holding directly  indirectly minimum paid- equity   for payment   spectrum fees without any maximum ECB liability debt -equity ratio. Bridge finance facility: Automatic route Short term foreign currency loan  the nature  bridge finance can  availed under the automatic route for making upfront payment towards  spectrum allocation. The borrower can, under the automatic route, replace the short-term loan with  long term ECB, which  raised within  period   months from the date  the drawdown  bridge finance. These relaxations would enable the successfui bidders  avaii ECB under the automatic route and facilitate the payment  spectrum allocation. Externai Commerciai Borrowing - Liberalisation and rationalisation  has been decided  further rationalise and liberalise the extant guidelines  under: - Enhancement  refinancing limit for Power Sector Indian companies Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC57in the power sector wili  allowed  utilise  per cent  the fresh ECB raised towards refinancing  the Rupee loan  availed  them from the domestic banking system, under the approvai route, subject  the condition that  least  per cent  the fresh ECB proposed   raised should  utilised for fresh capitai expenditure for infrastructure project . Ali other terms and conditions relating  refinancing  Rupee loans mentioned  . . DIR Series Circular .  dated September , 2o11 remain unchanged. ECB for maintenance and operation  toli systems for roads and highways ECBs would also  allowed for capitai expenditure under the automatic route for the purpose  maintenance and operations  toli systems for roads and highways provided they form part  the originai project. . . DIR Series circular . 111 dated 2oth Aprii, 2o12 Externai Commerciai Borrowing - Refinancing rescheduling  ECB   review,  has been decided that the borrowers desirous  refinancing  existing ECB can raise fresh ECB   higher ali--cost reschedule  existing ECB   higher ali--cost under the approvai route subject  the condition that the enhanced ali--cost does not exceed the ali--cost ceiling prescribed  per the extant guidelines. . . DIR Series Circular . 112 dated 2oth Aprii 2o12 Externai Commerciai Borrowing - Civii Aviation Sector  per the extant guidelines, availing  ECB for working capitai  not  permissible end-use.   review  the policy related  ECB and keeping  view the announcement made  the Union Budget for the year 2o12- ,  has been decided  allow ECB for working capitai   permissible end-use for the civii aviation sector, under the approvai route, subject  the following conditions: Airline companies registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and possessing scheduled operator permit license from Director Generai for Civii Aviation DGCA for passenger transportation are eligible  avaii  ECB for working capitai; ECB wili  allowed  the airline companies based  the cash flow, foreign exchange earnings and its capability  service the debt; The ECB for working capitai should  raised within  months from the date  issue  the circular; The ECB can  raised with  minimum average maturity period  three years; and The overali ECB ceiling for the entire civii aviation sector would  USD one billion and the maximum permissible ECB that can  availed   individuai airline company wili  USD 3oo million. This limit can  utilized for working capitai  weli  refinancing  the outstanding working capitai Rupee loan  availed  from the domestic banking system. Airline companies desirous  availing  such ECBs for refinancing their working capitai Rupee loans may submit the necessary certification from the domestic lender  regarding the outstanding Rupee loan . . . DIR Series Circular . 113 dated 24th Aprii, 2o12 Externai Commerciai Borrowing - Low cost affordable housing projects RBI has allowed ECB for low cost affordable housing projects   permissible end-use, under the approvai route. ECB can  availed   developers builders for low cost affordable housing projects. Housing Finance Companies HFCs Nationai Housing Bank NHB can also avaii  ECB for financing prospective owners  low cost affordable housing units.  DIR Series Circular .  Outbound regulations Liberalisation  overseas direct investment  resident individuals The RBI has liberalised the guidelines for outbound investment  resident individuals  considering the recommendations  the committee that reviewed the facilities for individuals under the FEMA. The highlights  the recommendations adopted are  follows:   clarified that  resident individuals acquire the shares   foreign company towards professionai services   lieu  directors remuneration, they are required  obtain generai permission from the RBI, provided the value  the shares  within the overali ceiling prescribed for resident individuals under the liberalised remittance scheme which  presently USD 2oo, ooo. Resident individuals are required  obtain generai permission from the RBI for acquiring qualification shares   overseas company for holding the post   director provided: Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC58 The number  qualification shares does not exceed the prescribed limit  the host country The value  shares  within the prescribed ceiling under the liberalised remittance scheme, which  presently USD 2oo, ooo With respect  resident individuals acquiring shares   foreign company through the employee stock option plan, the RBI has removed the condition regarding the foreign company  direct  indirect equity stake  the Indian company, leaving the other conditions unchanged and requiring generai permission from the RBI. . . DIR Series circular   dated  March 2o12 Inbound Investment QFIs permitted  invest  equity shares  listed Indian Companies The RBI has permitted qualified foreign investors QFI  invest  equity shares  Indian listed companies through SEBI registered DPs  recognized brokers  recognised stock exchanges  India. The key features are  under: Eligibility: Non-resident investors from jurisdictions that are compliant with Financiai Action Task Force FATF standards and signatories  Internationai Organization  Securities Commission IOSCO are eligible  invest. Investment can  made  repatriation basis  eligible transactions: Acquisition  shares over stock exchange. Acquisition  shares which are offered  public . . through Initiai Public Offer IPO. Acquisition  rights shares, bonus shares,  equity shares  account  stock split consolidation  equity shares  account  amalgamation, demerger. Investment limits: Individuai and aggregate ceiling   and  respectively. This limit shali  over and above NRI and FII limit. However, these investments wili  subject  overali sectorai caps prescribed under the FDI policy. Pricing: The pricing  ali eligible transactions and investment shali   accordance with applicable SEBI guidelines. Transfer: QFIs can seli the above shares over the stock exchange, under  buy-back scheme, offer for sale, public offer triggered under takeover code provisions. . . DIR Series Circular .  dated January , 2o12 Prior intimation  raising aggregate foreign institutionai investors non-resident investor limits for investment under portfolio investment schemes  required The RBI through  circular has clarified that  Indian company raising the aggregate FII investment limit    the sectorai cap  statutory limit,  applicable,  raising the aggregate NRI investment limit     should communicate this  the RBI immediately, along with  certificate from the company secretary stating that ali relevant provisions  the extant FEMA regulations and the FDI policy  amended from time  time have been complied with. Additionally, the RBI has stated the manner  which  monitors applicable ceilings  investments  FIIs, NRIs and persons  Indian origin PIOs  Indian companies   daily basis. For effective monitoring  foreign investment ceiling limits, the RBI has fixed cut-off points that are two percentage points lower than the actuai ceilings. When the aggregate net purchases  equity shares  the company  FIIs, NRIs and PIOs reaches the cut-off point  two percentage points below the overali limit, the RBI cautions ali designated bank branches not  purchase any more equity shares  the respective company  behalf  any FIIs, NRIs  PIOs without prior approvai  the RBI.  receipt  proposals through link offices, the RBI gives clearances   first-come-first-served basis  further invest untii such investments  companies reach the respective limits,  applicable.  reaching the aggregate ceiling limit, the RBI advises ali designated bank branches  stop purchases  behalf  their FIIs, NRIs and PIOs clients. The RBI also informs the generai public about the caution and stop purchase advise  relation  these companies through  press release. . . DIR Series circular .  dated  March 2o12 Foreign Direct Investment Foreign direct investments retaii trading The consolidated Foreign Direct Investment FDI policy effective  Aprii 2o12 circular   2o12 was amended with effect from  September 2o12 through press notes 2o12 series. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC59 FDI  retaii trading press notes  and  2o12 series Single-brand product retaii trading SBRT 1oo FDI  allowed for undertaking single brand retaii trading with prior government approvai.  case FDI    , sourcing from India  not mandatory. However, beyond , sourcing    the value  goods purchased should  done from India preferably micro, smali and medium enterprises MSME, and village and cottage industries.   aimed  attracting investment  production and marketing, improving the availability  goods for consumers and enhancing the competitiveness  Indian enterprises. The product should    single brand.  should  sold under the same brand internationally and should  branded during manufacturing. The foreign investor should  the owner  the products. Only one non-resident entity, whether the owner  franchisee  Licensee sub-licensee  the brand, shali  permitted  undertake SBRT  India for that specific brand, through  agreement, with the brand owner. The onus for ensuring compliance wili  the responsibility  the Indian entity carrying out SBRT  India. Retaii trading  any form  means  -commerce wili not  permissible for companies with FDI engaged  the activity  SBRT. Applications wili specifically indicate product categories proposed   sold under  single brand. Any addition  the product wili require the fresh approvai  the government. Multi-brand retaii trading MBRT FDI  MBRT  permitted for ali products    with government approvai. Fresh agriculturai produce, including fruits, vegetables, flowers, grains, pulses, fresh poultry, fish and meat products, may  unbranded. The minimum amount   brought   FDI  the foreign investor wili  USD 1oo million.  least   totai FDI brought  shali  invested  backend infrastructure within three years  the first tranche  FDI. Backend infrastructure wili include capitai expenditure  ali activities, excluding that  front-end units, investment made towards processing, manufacturing, distribution, design improvement, quality controi, packaging, logistics, storage, warehouse, agriculture market produce infrastructure, etc. However, expenditure  land cost and rentals,  any, wili not  counted for the purposes  backend infrastructure.  least   the value  procurement  manufactured, processed products purchased shali  sourced from Indian smali industries which have  totai investment  plant and machinery not exceeding USD  million. This valuation refers  the value  the time  installation, without providing for depreciation. Furthermore,   any point  time this valuation  exceeded, the industry shali not qualify   smali industry for this purpose. This procurement requirement wili have   met,  the first instance,   average  five years totai value  the manufactured, processed products purchased, beginning  Aprii  the year during which the first tranche  FDI  received. Thereafter,  wili have   met   annuai basis. Retaii trading  any form  means  -commerce wili not  permissible for companies with FDI engaged  the activity  MBRT. Retaii sales outlets may  set  only  cities with  population  more than  lakh according  the 2o11 Census, which may also cover  area   kms around the municipai  urban agglomeration limits  such cities. However,  the case  states and union territories not having cities with  population  more than  lakh according  the 2o11 Census, retaii sales outlets may  set   cities  their choice, preferably the largest city, which may also cover  area   kms around the municipai and urban agglomeration limits  such cities. The government wili have the first right  the procurement  agriculturai products. This policy   enabling policy only and the state governments and union territories wili  free  take their own decisions with regard  the implementation  the policy.  both SBRT and MBRT, the quantum  domestic sourcing wili  self- certified  the company,   subsequently checked,  statutory auditors, from the duly certified accounts which the company wili  required  maintain. Applications seeking permission  the government for FDI  retaii trading  single-brand  multi-brand products wili  made  the Secretariat for Industriai Assistance SIA  the Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion DIPP. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC6oFDI  civii aviation press note  2o12 series Salient features  the FDI policy  the civii aviation sector Contraventions for compoundingAmount involved  contraventionPossible action Scheduled air transport service domestic scheduled passenger airline49 FDI 1oo for NRIs Automatic Non-scheduled air transport service74 FDI 1oo for NRIs    - automatic    - government approvai Helicopter services seaplane services requiring DGCA approval1oo Automatic FDI policy broadcasting content services Particulars Percentage FDI Means  entry Terrestriai broadcasting  radio subject  conditions specified  Ministry  Information and Broadcasting  Government approvai Uplinking  news and current affairs  channels26 Government approvai Uplinking  non- news and current affairs  channels downlinking   channels1oo Government approvai FDI policy broadcasting content services Particulars Percentage FDI Means  entry Teleports setting   uplinking HUBs teleports Direct--home DTH Cable networks multi-system operating  nationai  state  district levei and undertaking upgradation  networks towards digitalisation and addressability Mobile  Headend--the sky HITS Broadcasting service     - automatic Exceeding    - government approvai Cable networks other MSOs not undertaking upgradation  networks towards digitalisation and addressability and locai cable operators LCOs  Automatic routeOther conditions Air transport services wili include domestic scheduled passenger airlines, non-scheduled air transport services, helicopter and seaplane services. Foreign airlines are allowed  participate  the equity  companies operating cargo airlines, helicopter and seaplane services,  accordance with the limits and entry routes. Foreign airlines are also, henceforth, allowed  invest  the capitai  Indian companies operating scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services,   the limit    their paid- capitai. Such investment would  subject  the following conditions:  would  made under the government approvai route. The  limit wili subsume FDI and FII investment. The investment  made wili need  comply with the relevant regulations  SEBI, such  the Issue  Capitai and Disclosure Requirements ICDR Regulations Substantiai Acquisition  Shares and Takeovers SAST Regulations,  weli  other applicable rules and regulations.  scheduled operator' permit can  granted only   company   meets the following requirements:   registered and has its principai place  business within India. The chairman and  least two-thirds  the directors are citizens  India. Substantiai ownership and effective controi  the company  vested  Indian nationals. Ali foreign nationals likely   associated with Indian scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services,   result  such investment, shali  cleared from  security viewpoint before deployment. Ali technicai equipment that might  imported into India   result  such investment shali require clearance from the relevant authority  the Ministry  Civii Aviation. FDI  the broadcasting sector press note  2o12 series Salient features  the FDI policy  the broadcasting sectorRegulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC61Other conditions FDI for uplinking and downlinking  channels wili  subject  compliance with the relevant uplinking and downlinking policy announced  the Ministry  Information and Broadcasting from time  time. The foreign investment limit  companies engaged  the above activities shali include,  addition  FDI, investment  FIls, NRIs, foreign currency convertible bonds FCCBs, American depository receipts ADRs, globai depository receipts GDRs and convertible preference shares held  foreign entities. Additionai security conditions Key executives  the company The majority  directors  the board  the company shali  Indian citizens. The chief executive officer CEO, chief officer -charge  technicai network operations and chief security officer should  resident Indian citizens. Security clearance would  required for the following: The company. Ali directors  the board. Key executives like , CEO, CFO, CSO, CTO, and shareholders who individually hold   more paid- capitai  the company. Ali foreign personnei likely   deployed for more than  days   year  way  appointment, contract, and consultancy   any other capacity for installation, maintenance, operation  any other services prior  their deployment. The security clearance  required   obtained every two years. FDI  power exchanges press note  2o12 series Salient features  the FDI policy  the power sector Particulars Percentage FDI Means  entry Power exchanges registered under Centrai Electricity Regulatory Commission Power Market Regulations, 2o1o49 FDI and FII subject   - maximum FDI  - maximum FIIFor FDI government route For FII investment automatic routeOther conditions FII purchases shali  restricted   secondary market only.  non-resident investor  entity, including persons acting  concert, wili hold more than   the equity  the company. Also, the foreign investment should   compliance with SEBI regulations, other applicable laws and regulations, and security and other conditions. Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion - Press Note   The DIPP has clarified that any strategic downstream investment made   bank owned  controlled  non-residents   non-resident entity made under Corporate Debt Restructuring CDR  other loan restructuring mechanism shali not  treated  indirect foreign investment. This wili allow private banks with overseas controi  restructure their corporate debt, something they were hitherto unable   due  the FDI policy norms. However, strategic downstream investment  subsidiaries wili count towards computation  indirect foreign investment. Press note   2o12 The Government  India has issued Press Note  permitting investment from Pakistan. Some  the key aspects provided  the notification include: Citizen  Pakistan   entity incorporated  Pakistan  permitted  make investment  India, with prior government approvai Defence, space and atomic energy sectors are however excluded from this window available  citizens and companies incorporated  Pakistan Other Circulars Relaxation  valuation norms for  newly incorporated company The Indian Exchange Controi regulations requires subscription  equity shares, compulsorily convertible preference shares  compulsorily convertible debentures equity instrument   Indian company  foreign investors under the FDI Scheme    compliant with the valuation norms.  per the present valuation norms, issue price  equity instrument   unlisted Indian company cannot  less than its fair value  determined   SEBI registered merchant banker   chartered accountant  per the discounted free cash flow method. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC62 The RBI has now carved out  exception  the above regulations whereby non-residents including non-resident Indians proposing  make investment   Indian company  compliance with the provisions  the Companies Act, 1956,  way  subscription  the Memorandum  Association . . the initiai share capitai, can make such investments  face value. The above liberation would enable newly incorporated Indian subsidiaries  foreign entities  issue equity instruments  face value without applying discounted free cash flow valuation method.  DIR Series Circular .  dated  September, 2o12 Setting   step-down operating subsidiaries  Non Banking Financiai Companies NBFC having foreign investment Presently, only 1oo foreign owned NBFCs with  minimum capitalisation   million USD were permitted  set   step-down subsidiary for specific NBFC activities, without any restriction  the number  operating subsidiaries and without bringing  additionai capitai. The minimum capitalisation condition  mandated  para . . .   the DIPP circular   2o12  Consolidated FDI Policy, therefore, shali not apply  downstream subsidiaries.  has now been decided  extend the above facility even  NBFCs which have foreign investment above  and below 1oo. Press Note .  2o12 Series dated 3rd October 2o12 Liaison Office Liaison office  branch office  project office   India - additionai reporting requirement Report needs   submitted  the Director Generai  Police DGP  the State concerned  which the office  established within five working days  the Indian office becoming functionai.  case the foreign entity has set  more than one office  India, such report needs   submitted  each DGP having jurisdiction  the state where the office  established. . . DIR Series Circular .  dated 25th September, 2o12 Annuai filing  ali Indian offices new and existing both The above report also needs   filed with the DGP concerned   annuai basis along with  copy  the AAC ,  the case may . . . DIR Series Circular .  dated 25th September, 2o12 Submission  annuai statement   non-resident having   According  section 285  the Act,   having    required  submit  annuai statement with the assessing officer within  period   days.  this regard, Rule 114DA  the Income tax Rules, 1962 the Rules provides for  annuai statement   provided along with  digitai signature  Form 49C which shali  verified   chartered accountant. The Director Generai  Income tax Systems shali specify the procedure for filing the annuai statement. The salient features  the annuai statement are  follows: India specific details relating  the non-resident such  address  the   India, permanent account number  the , date  opening  the . Nature  activities undertaken  the  Date  RBI approvai  the  Date  submitting the annuai activity certificate for the financiai year  the RBI Details  ali purchases, sales  materiai and services from  Indian parties during the year  the  person not limited  transactions made  the  Name and designation  the officer--charge for each office  the  person  India Details  salary compensation payable outside India for any employee working  India Totai number  employees working  the LOS including those employees drawing salary  , ooo INR  above Names and addresses  the top five parties  India Details  products  services for which liaising activity  done  the Details  any other entity for which liaising activity  done  the  Details  group entities present  India  branch offices companies LLPs Details  other LOs  India Notification .  2o12 . . 142  2o11- TPL, Dated --2o12Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC63Establishment     India  foreign entities The RBI through circular  2o12 dated  September 2o12 has clarified that entities such  foreign non-government organisations foreign government bodies departments are required  apply  the RBI for prior permission  establish  office  India, whether    otherwise.  should  noted that according  notification  FEMA  2oo3, dated  July 2oo3,  foreign company may open  project office  India provided  has secured  contract from the Indian Government  execute  project  India. . . DIR Series circular .  dated  September 2o12 and notification . FEMA  2ooo- dated  July 2oo3 Sectorai Guidelines Telecommunications Revised license fee Department  Telecommunication DoT has revised the annuai license fee rate  annuai gross revenue for ISPs, UASL CMTS Basic service licence category , , , ILD and NLD services. Following   tabular representation  license fee rate applicable tili  March 2o13 and post  March 2o13: . . Type  license Annuai license fee rate   percentage  AGR For the period from  July 2o12   March 2o13For the year 2o13- and onwards  ISP ISP Internet telephony4    UASL CMTS Basic service licence Category   Category   Category     ILD service licence    NLD service licece  8Supreme Court judgement cancelling telecom licenses The ,   landmark judgment, cancelled 122 UASL with  spectrum letters issued   after January , 2oo8 during the tenure  the then Telecom Minister, . . Raja. This order came   plea   NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation represented  advocate  Prashant Bhushan, Common Cause and distinguished citizens. These licenses bundled with spectrum were quashed  the court after finding that their allocation was done   illegai manner. According  Comptroller and Auditor Generai  CAG report, there was  loss  INR . -lakh crore  the exchequer  account  licenses being given  2oo8  2oo1 prices, without  auction.  brief synopsis  the order   follows: The above direction shali become operative after  months from the date  order viz February , 2o12 Within  months from the date  order, Telecom Regulatory Authority  India TRAI shali make fresh recommendations for grant  license and allocation  spectrum   band  ali  service areas  auction Centrai Government  consider the recommendations  TRAI and take appropriate decision within the next  month Financiai Services Investment  Indian venture capitai undertakings and  domestic venture capitai funds  SEBI registered foreign venture capitai investors permitted The RBI has permitted foreign venture capitai investors FVCIs  invest  the eligible securities equity, equity-linked instruments, debt, debt instruments, debentures   Indian venture capitai undertakings IVCU  venture capitai fund VCF, and units  schemes  funds set    VCF,  way  private arrangement   purchase from  third party subject  terms and conditions  stipulated  Schedule   Foreign Exchange Management transfer  issue  security   person resident outside India, Regulations, 2ooo. Additionally, the RBI has clarified that FVCIs are permitted  invest  securities   recognised stock exchange subject  the provisions  the SEBI FVCI Regulations, 2ooo. . . DIR Series circular   dated  March 2o12Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC64SEBI Alternative Investment Funds Regulations 2o12 announced  .  2o12   August 2o11, the SEBI issued  concept paper for the proposed introduction  SEBI alternative investment funds Regulations for public comments. Considering the need for regulating unregulated funds, ensuring systematic stability, increasing market efficiency and encouraging formation  new capitai and investor protection, the SEBI announced the Alternative Investment Funds Regulations   Aprii 2o12. The key features  the regulations are  follows: Registration  function   alternative investment fund AIF,   mandatory  obtain  certificate  registration from SEBI. For existing AIFs, registration    done within six months, which may  extended   further six months  speciai cases Categories for registration are  follows: Category : comprises AIFs which invests  start-  early stage ventures  sociai ventures  smali and medium enterprises SMEs  infrastructure  other sectors  areas which the government  regulators consider  socially  economically desirable and shali include venture capitai funds, SME funds, sociai venture funds, infrastructure funds and other AIFs such   venture capitai company  venture capitai fund  specified  section  23FB  the Act. Category : comprises AIFs which  not fali into category  and III and which  not undertake leverage  borrowing other than  meet day-- day operationai requirements and  permitted  these regulations. AIFs under this category include private equity funds  debt funds for which  specific incentives  concessions are given  the government  any other regulator. Category III: comprises AIFs which employ diverse  complex trading strategies and may employ leverage including through investment  listed  unlisted derivatives. AIFs under this category includes hedge funds  funds which trade with  view  make short-term returns  such other funds which are open ended and for which  specific incentives  concessions are given  the government  any other regulator. Conditions and restrictions Investment  ali categories  AIF would  subject  the following conditions: - AIF may raise funds from any investor  way  issue  units. AIF shali have  corpus  not less than INR 2oo million. Minimum investment   investor  the AIF shali not  less than  million INR. Manager  sponsor must have  continuing interest  the AIF  not less than .   the corpus   million INR, whichever  lower.  AIF scheme cannot have more than 1ooo investors. Category  and  AIFs cannot invest more than   the corpus  one investee-company. Category III AIF cannot invest more than   the corpus  one investee company. Further additionai conditions have been specified  respect  venture capitai funds, SMEs, sociai venture funds and infrastructure funds covered  the categories mentioned above. Banking Laws Amendment Bili, 2o11 the bili passed  Lok Sabha The Lok Sabha Lower House  Parliament recently passed the Banking Laws Amendment Bili, 2o11 Bili.  much awaited measure   formed  precondition for Reserve Bank  India RBI  issue finai guidelines for licensing  new banks  the private sector. The key highlights  the Bili are  under: RBI wili have the power  supersede the boards  banks, appoint directors and chairman, inspect the books  associate companies  banks. RBI  impose such conditions   deems necessary while granting  approvai for acquisition   percent  more  paid  share capitai   banking company Shareholders voting rights increased   percent from the existing  percent  case  private sector bank and   percent from the existing  percent  case  public sector banks. The Bili contained  proposai  exempt bank mergers and acquisitions from the purview  Competition Commission  India CCI. The Finance Minister, however, clarified that the banking sector  not outside the CCI  purview. Thus, bank mergers and acquisitions wili need   approved  both RBI and CCI. Existing regulatory regime requiring RBI approvai for ali share transfers beyond  percent and upto  percent  continue Mergers and Acquisitions  banking wili continue   monitored and approved  the banking regulator Notification . DSM   Release : 91116 dated 21st December, 2o12Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC65IRDA Issuance  Capitai  Generai Insurance Companies Regulations, 2o12 draft regulation issued The Insurance Regulation and Development Agency IRDA issued draft regulations for issue  capitai  enable non-life insurers  tap capitai markets. Key highlights  the draft regulation are  follows: Mandatory prior approvai  IRDA required before Generai Insurance Companies GIC approaches SEBI for public issue  shares. Approvai   valid for  period  one year from the date  issue Approvai wili  granted based  GIC  financiai position, its capitai structure and regulatory record Issue  capitai only    the form  fully paid equity shares. Any other form  capitai  require prior IRDA approvai Additionally, while granting approvai, IRDA may prescribe the following: The extent  which the promoters shali dilute their respective shareholding The maximum subscription which could  allotted  any class  foreign investors Minimum lock- period for the promoters from the date  allotment  shares Issued  IRDA under exposure drafts dated  September, 2o12 Amendments  Insurance Laws Amendment Bili 2oo8 approved  Cabinet Based  the recommendations  the Standing Committee  Finance, the Cabinet has approved certain necessary amendments  the Insurance Laws Amendment Bili, 2oo8 which  currently pending  Rajya Sabha upper house  Parliament. Some  the key amendments are  follows: Foreign equity cap   kept  . Foreign reinsurers   permitted  open branches  India for reinsurance business only. Capitai requirement for health insurance companies   reduced  INR  crores. Health insurance policies  cover sickness benefits  account  domestic and internationai travei. Constitution   separate Motor Vehicle Insurance and Compensation Legislation. Period within which  policy can  repudiated  grounds  misstatement    years from the date  issue  such policy. Public sector GICs and GICs   permitted  raise capitai from the market provided Government ownership   maintained. Notification  PIB:  SKS Release : 88152 dated 4th October 2o12 The Non-Banking Financiai Company Factors Reserve Bank Directions, 2o12 Pursuant  the notification  the Factoring Regulation Act, 2o11 issued  the government  January 2o12,  new category  NBFCs viz. Non- Banking Financiai Company Factors has been introduced  the RBI along with specific directions  govern this activity. Some  the key features  these directions are: Mandatory registration with RBI   NBFC-Factor. Minimum NOF  INR  crores. NBFC-Factors  satisfy :  asset income pattern, . . financiai assets  the factoring business should constitute  least  percent  its totai assets and its income derived from the factoring business should not  less than  percent  its gross income. Applicability  NBFC Prudentiai Norms  NBFC Factors. Existing NBFCs satisfying the prescribed asset income pattern may approach RBI along with certificate  registration and auditor  certificate for change  classification within six months from the date  RBI notification. NBFC-Factors intending  deai  forex through export  import factoring required  make  application  the Foreign Exchange Department  RBI for permission  deai  forex and adhere  the terms and conditions prescribed. Amendment  Non Banking Financiai Company - Micro Finance Institutions directions Post issue  framework for Non Banking Finance Company Micro Finance Institution NBFC-MFI, such NBFCs have been making representations  RBI regarding difficulties  complying with the existing RBI framework for NBFC-MFIs. Considering the representations, the RBI issued certain amendments  the provisions related  NBFC-MFIs  the following key aspects: Existing NBFCs  approach the RBI immediately for  change  Certificate  Registration CoR. Existing NBFCs  seek registration Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC66by  October 2o12 provided Net Owned Funds NOF  INR  crore   March 2o13 and NOF  INR  crore   March 2o14  maintained. Failure  comply with minimum NOF requirements wili restrict sending  the MFI sector    the totai assets. Also, new companies should meet the INR  crore NOF criteria.  least   assets   qualified assets originating   after  July 2o12. Also, income generation target reduced from     the totai loans.  borrower can  the member  only one self-help group SHG  one joint liability groups JLG  borrow   individuai. Conditions such  annuai household income, totai indebtedness, membership  SHG  JLG, borrowing sources  weli  percentage  qualifying assets and income-generating asset needs   followed. The  cap  interest prescribed earlier has been relaxed provided average interest rate does not exceed the borrowing cost plus margin during  financiai year. Individuai loans may exceed the limit   provided deviation from mean interest rate  not more than - . The MFIs can approach their boards  fix internai limits  avoid concentration  specific geographic locations Fair practices code  issued  the RBI needs   followed. Each MFI needs    member   least one SRO. Primarily, the MFI  responsible for adequate monitoring  compliance with the Directions. Lending banks and SROs also need  ensure compliance with system practices. RBI 2o12-2o13 14o DNBS  . . 297 Factor . .  2o12- dated 23rd July, 2o12 Guidelines for overseas investments  CICs The RBI has issued the finai Core Investment Companies - Overseas Investment Reserve Bank Directions 2o12 CIC Outbound Directions. The CIC Outbound Directions are  addition  the existing directions prescribed  Foreign Exchange Department for overseas investment. These Directions are applicable  ali CICs whether registered with the RBI  not. Some  the key provisions are detailed below: Financiai sector investment Overseas investment  financiai sector permitted only for RBI registered CICs CICs-- through prior approvai  RBI. Financiai sector defined  mean  sector service regulated   financiai sector regulator. Overseas investment  financiai sector permitted only  regulated entities abroad Non-financiai sector investment CICs-- permitted  make overseas investment  non-financiai sector without any RBI approvai subject  reporting requirements  prescribed. Exempted CICs permitted  make overseas investment  non- financiai sector without any RBI approvai and without complying with the CIC outbound directions. Eligibility criteria CICs making overseas investment need  have  adjusted net worth ratio   least   the manner prescribed before and after making the overseas investment. Non-performing asset levei  CICs not  exceed   net advances. CICs need  have  three year profitability track record and satisfactory performance during its existence. Limits  overseas investment Aggregate overseas investment   CIC not  exceed 4oo  its owned funds and aggregate overseas investment  financiai sector not  exceed 2oo  its owned funds. Overseas investment  financiai non-financiai sector restricted  the CICs financiai commitment . . contribution  way  equity investment, loan and   guarantees issued    behalf  overseas  WOS. Opening  Branches  WOS abroad CICs not permitted  set  branches overseas. Existing branches  CICs need  approach RBI within  months for  review. Overseas  WOS Wholly owned subsidiary  CICs not   sheli companies . . having  significant assets  operations and not   used  vehicle for raising resources for creating assets  India for India operations. Parent entity  liability towards  WOS   disclosed  the balance sheet   WOS including whether   equity loan guarantee with details  nature and amount  guarantee. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC67Opening  representative offices CICs permitted  set- representative offices abroad with prior approvai  RBI for the purpose  liaison work, undertaking market study and research but not for any activity involving outlay  funds  line  credit permitted   extended for representative offices Other generai conditions Overseas investments  CICs not permitted  prohibited activities  prescribed under FEMA. CICs permitted  issue guarantees letter  comfort  the overseas subsidiary engaged  non-financiai activity. CICs need  ensure that investments made abroad  not result  creation  complex structures. Maximum two tiers permitted   structure where  non-operating holding company required offshore. Existing CICs having more than one non operating holding company need  report  RBI for  review. Annuai statutory auditor certificate   submitted  RBI  Aprii  every year certifying compliance with CIC outbound directions. RBI 2o12- 314 DNBS  . . 311 . . oo1 2o12- dated 6th December Draft guidelines  NBFC sector based  Usha Thorat Committee Recommendations Based  the recommendations made  the Usha Thorat Committee and subsequent feedback, the RBI issued draft guidelines for NBFC and has invited feedback and views  the same   January, 2o13. Key provisions proposed are: Entry point norms Based  issuance  CoR, NBFCs   classified  registered and exempted NBFCs. Pre-requisite for NBFC registration - NOF  minimum INR  crore plus satisfaction  principai business criteria PBC plus assets  minimum INR  crore. PBC  qualify   NBFC    follows: Financiai entities having assets  minimum INR 1ooo crore - financiai assets   minimum   totai assets  financiai income   minimum   totai income. Other companies not accepting deposits - Financiai assets  minimum INR  crore plus financiai assets and financiai income  minimum  respectively. PBC for asset financing companies AFCs   redefined  alignment with that  the revised PBC for NBFCs existing  replaced with . Exemption from RBI registration available for NBFCs other than for deposit taking NBFCs with - Assets below INR  crore whether accepting public funds  not. Assets below INR 5oo crore and not accepting public funds, directly  indirectly. Foreign owned companies  obtain CoR from RBI before commencing any non-banking financiai activity. Transition mechanism for existing NBFCs Non-deposit taking NBFCs with assets below .  crore required  approach RBI within  months with  road map for achieving assets  minimum INR  crore within  years; and obtain fresh CoR within  months thereafter. Ali existing NBFCs  achieve financiai assets  minimum .  crore within  years with prescribed milestones March 2o14 -  and March 2o15 - . Deposit taking NBFCs failing  achieve  threshold  March 2o15 not permitted  accept renew fresh deposits and need  repay existing deposits within the time frame  may  decided  RBI. Multiple NBFCs   group part   corporate group  floated  common set  promoters Totai assets   aggregated for determination  systemically important NBFCs . . INR 1oo crore and for application  prudentiai norms   applied  each NBFC   group Definition  group widened  include - group entities  per ali Indian Accounting Standards, promoter- promotee  per SEBI listed company guidelines. entities with common brand name. investee companies  which equity shareholding  minimum . Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC68Captive NBFCs having  least   totai assets  financing  parent company  products Tier  capitai   minimum  for capitai adequacy purposes existing Captive NBFCs  achieve within  years. Government NBFCs Required  comply with revised regulatory framework  the earliest  qualifying  NBFCs Liquidity requirements Need  maintain high quality liquid assets such that there   liquidity gap  - day bucket. Liquid assets  include cash, bank deposits available within  days, money market instruments maturing   days, investment  actively traded debt securities valued   and carrying  least    equivalent rating Prudentiai norms Tier  Capitai for capitai adequacy purposes Minimum  - For Captive NBFCs and NBFCs having more than  assets towards lending investment  sensitive sectors namely capitai market, commodities and reai estate. Minimum  - For ali other NBFCs Existing NBFCs  achieve the above within  years Risk weights for Capitai Market Exposures CME and Commerciai Reai Estate Exposures CRE For NBFCs   bank group - same  specified for banks. For other NBFCs other than Captive NBFCs and NBFCs having exposure  sensitive sectors - raised  15o for CME and 125 for CRE. Asset Classification and Provisioning Norms including for standard assets   made similar  that for banks and   implemented   phased manner  prescribed One-time adjustment  repayment schedule permitted and not   considered  restructuring. Standard assets provisioning raised from .   . . Deposit Taking NBFCs including AFCs   credit rated without which not permitted  accept deposits existing unrated NBFCs given  period   year  get rated. Limits for deposit acceptance reduced from  times  .  times NOF existing AFCs   provided specific time period for compliance during which renewai fresh deposit acceptance not permitted. Corporate Governance and Disclosures Prior RBI approvai required for change  controi  transfer  shareholding for ali NBFCs  case  change  controi and  increase  shareholding    more  paid  equity capitai  individuals  groups, directly  indirectly  case  acquisitions mergers under section 391-394  the Companies Act, 1956     NBFC before approaching the Courts Acquisitions  ordinary course  business   underwriter,  stock broker and  merchant banker excluded from approvai CEO Appointment and related matters For NBFCs with assets  INR 1ooo crore and above Prior RBI approvai for appointment  CEOs. Restriction  maximum  directorships for every director   NBFC public  private . . similar  that prescribed under section 275  the Companies Act, 1956. Compliance with clause   SEBI  listing agreement  corporate governance including induction  independent directors. NBFCs with assets  INR 1oo crore and more but less than INR 1ooo crore encouraged  adopt Clause  principles  their governance practices. Fit and proper criteria for directors Ali NBFCs with assets   1oo crore and above and deposit taking NBFCs -  have  policy for ascertaining fit and proper criteria for appointment  directors based  guidelines  prescribed and comply with prescribed periodic reporting. Disclosures  financiai statements notes  account For ali registered NBFCs - registration with other regulator , any credit ratings assigned  rating agencies and penalties,  any levied  any regulator. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC69 For NBFCs with assets  INR 1ooo crore and above whether listed  not Compliance with mandatory disclosures under Clause   SEBI listing agreement. Provision coverage ratio, liquidity ratio, asset liability profile, extent  financing  parent company products, NPAs movement  NPAs, details  ali off-balance sheet exposures, structured products issued  also securitisation assignment transactions and other disclosures  prescribed. For unlisted NBFCs - above disclosures   made available  their websites. Remuneration and compensation NBFCs with assets  INR 1ooo crore and above -  mandatorily constitute  Remuneration Committee  decide  compensation  executives  accordance with guidelines   issued separately. NBFCs with assets below INR 1ooo crore - encouraged  adopt such practices. Foreign investment  NBFC Sector under the FDI scheme The RBI vide its circulars has clarified that leasing and financing activities one  the  NBFC activities for foreign investment purposes covers only financiai leases. Operating leases  not fali within the purview  NBFC activities and thus, foreign investment  permitted  operating leases, without minimum capitalisation restrictions, under the FDI scheme. Investment  way  private arrangement  Indian venture capitai undertakings and  domestic venture capitai funds  SEBI registered foreign venture capitai investors permitted The RBI has permitted FVCIs  invest  the eligible securities equity, equity-linked instruments, debt, debt instruments, debentures   IVCUs  VCFs, and units  schemes  funds set    VCF,  way  private arrangement   purchase from  third party subject  terms and conditions  stipulated  Schedule   Foreign Exchange Management transfer  issue  security   person resident outside India, Regulations, 2ooo. Additionally, the RBI has clarified that FVCIs are permitted  invest  securities   recognised stock exchange subject  the provisions  the SEBI FVCI Regulations, 2oooFII investment  --listed debt securities  line with the SEBI circular dated  November, 2o1o allowing FIIs  invest  --listed debt securities, the RBI has now permitted SEBI registered FIIs sub-accounts  FIIs together referred   FIIs  invest  primary issues  NCDs bonds subject  the following conditions: Such NCDs bonds are committed   listed within  days  investment  FIIs. Where such NCDs bonds issued  FIIs are not listed within  days  issue, the FII has  immediately seli the bonds NCDs   third party  the issuer. The terms  offer  the FII must contain  clause that the issuer  such debt securities must immediately redeem buy back the securities from the FII  the debt securities are not listed within the prescribed time frame   days. Revision  the framework for QFI investment  equity shares and mutuai fund schemes Further  its earlier circular  January 2o12, the SEBI revised the framework for QFI investments . Some  the key changes, including modification  the definition  QFI, are mentioned below: QFI resident   non-signatory country  IOSCO  Multilaterai Memorandum  Understanding MMoU may also qualify   QFI, provided such  country has  bilaterai MMoU with the SEBI. QFI not   person resident  India. The definition  person and resident   country are the same  those  the FEMA and the Act. Additionally, the SEBI has amended the existing QFI circular January 2o12  under: Investment  QFIs  the same company through both FDI and QFI routes not  exceed   paid- equity capitai ali classes  equity shares having separate and distinct ISIN  the company  any point  time. QFIs allowed  make fresh purchases through  single demat account  eligible securities, out  sale, redemption  dividend proceeds  any  the eligible securities. QFI may appoint  custodian qualified Depository Participant   QFI and registered   custodian with SEBI  securities, who would  obligated  perform clearing and settlement  securities  behalf  QFI client. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC7o QFIs must invest  ali eligible securities through  single non-interest bearing rupee account. Circular CIR IMD FII   2o12 dated June , 2o12 Investment  QFIs  Indian corporate debt securities RBI has recently permitted QFIs  invest  debt securities  India  repatriation basis, subject   overali limit  USD  billion. Under this scheme, QFIs can invest through SEBI-registered QDPs  listed NCDs, listed bonds  Indian companies, listed units  mutuai fund debt schemes and   listed corporate bonds. For this purpose,  QFI may open  single non-interest bearing rupee account for settlement  transactions relating  purchase and sale  eligible securities and may also open  demat account with  QDP. RBI 2o12- 134 . . DIR Series Circular .  dated 16th July, 2o12 Foreign investment limit for Asset Reconstruction Companies reviewed The foreign investment  Asset Reconstruction Company ARC has been enhanced from    vide Government  press release issued recently. The key changes conditions  listed  the Press Release are  follows: Foreign investment limit    ARC    combined limit  FDI and FII. Hence, the prohibition  investment  FII  ARCs has been removed.  sponsor  hold more than   the shareholding   ARC either  way  FDI   routing through  FII. Totai shareholding   individuai FII   ARC shali not exceed   the totai paid- capitai. Limit  FII investment  Security Receipts SRs   enhanced from     each tranche  scheme  SRs. Individuai limit   for investment   single FII  each tranche  SRs issued  ARCs has been dispensed. Investment  FIIs   need   within the FII limit  corporate bonds prescribed from time  time and subject  the sectorai caps under the extant FDI regulations Foreign investment  ARCs would need  comply with the FDI policy  terms  entry route conditionality and sectorai caps DSM   Release : 91117 dated 21st December 2o12SEBI Exemptions from 1oo promoter  holding shares  dematerialised form The SEBI had earlier mandated that 1oo promoter  holding should   dematerialised form.  receiving representations from various companies  issues relating  dematerialisation  promoters holdings, the SEBI  consultation with stock exchanges allowed exemption  respect  the following promoters from compliance with 1oo promoter  holding  dematerialised form. This circular  effective from  Aprii 2o12. The following are the instances when exemption would  considered: Promoter  have sold their shares   physicai mode and the same have not been lodged for transfer with the company. The entire  partiai shareholding  promoters  the promoter group  under judiciai deliberation before any court  tribunai. Shares cannot  converted into dematerialised form due  the death  any  the promoter . Shares allotted  promoter  that await finai approvai for listing and where such pendency  less than  days,  shares received  finai listing are pending for conversion  dematerialised form and where such pendency  less than  days. SEBI Cir ISD  2o12 dated  March 2o12 Amendment  SEBI Portfolio Managers Regulations, 2o12  increase the minimum investment amount under portfolio management scheme  protect the interests  smali and retaii investors investing under the Portfolio Management Services PMS route, the SEBI has enhanced the minimum investment amount per investor from INR  lakh  INR  lakh. This has been done  limit retaii investors exposure and accessibility  PMS. Additionally, portfolio managers have been debarred from holding unlisted securities  addition  the existing restriction  holding listed securities belonging  portfolio accounts,  their own names  behalf  clients. Both amendments are applicable  fresh investments  existing  new investors from the date  the circular. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC71Compensation guidelines for key manageriai personnei  private sector and foreign banks operating  India The RBI, subsequent  the draft guidelines, has issued the finai guidelines regulating compensation payable  fuli-time directors, chief executive officers, risk takers and controi function staff  private sector and foreign banks. According  these guidelines, from  2o12-, the private sector and foreign banks operating  India would  required  obtain  prior approvai from the RBI  grant remuneration  fuli-time directors and chief executive officers. The highlights  the guidelines are  follows: Private sector banks Private banks are required  adopt  comprehensive compensation policy covering ali employees and conduct  annuai review  this. The board  directors  banks should constitute  remuneration committee  the board  oversee the framing, review and implementation  the compensation policy  the bank. The compensation structure includes fixed and variable pay, deferred compensation, employees stock option plan and bonus. Disclosure  required   made  remuneration  the annuai financiai statements under the prescribed format. Foreign banks Head offices  foreign banks operating  India are  submit  declaration  the RBI confirming compliance with the financiai stability board FSB principles and standards regarding the compensation structure for its employees  India. For foreign banks with  head office situated   country that has not adopted the FSB principles, the compensation guidelines  private banks would  applicable. DBOD  .  . . oo1 2o11- dated  January 2o12 Registration  pension funds for private sector guidelines, 2o12 The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority PFRDA has recently issued guidelines for registration  pension funds  the private sector. The key eligibility criteria for  applicant are  follows: Sponsor must   company  the financiai services sector regulated  any  the financiai services sector regulators  India . . RBI, SEBI, IRDA, and PFRDA.  case the applicant    company,  least one  the shareholders sponsors should falls under the financiai sector regulators. Monthly AAUM should not  less than INR , ooo crores  the preceding  months ending with the month  application and such AAUM should not  less than INR , ooo crores. This criteria should  met  any one  the sponsors  case the application  made    company. Sponsor  assets under management shali not include investments  its own assets, investment advisory services  any other similar activity. Sponsors must have  positive net worth during the immediately preceding five years with  net profit record  three years immediately preceding the application. Applicant should   fit and proper person.  applicant can make  application and obtain -principle approvai from PFRDA, provided the applicant satisfies the criteria laid down under the guidelines. The applicant can then approach PFRDA for formai registration within three months from the date  such -principle clearance. The registration certificate, once granted, may  reviewed annually  within such period  may  specified. PFRDA: Change  centrai government investment modei for the corporate sector Under the NPS-corporate sector modei, corporate have been provided the option  select the centrai government investment modei  the investment option  exercised  them for their employees.  terms  the PFRDA Circular  PFRDAICIR  PFM  dated  August, with effect from  November 2o12, the private PFMs wili  free  decide the investment management fee within the upper ceiling  .  per annum prescribed  the PFRDA  present. Due  this differentiai fee offered  the PFMs from  November 2o12, the new corporate- scheme wili  introduced with effect from  November 2o12. The scheme wili follow the centrai government investment guidelines issued from time  time. The salient features wili   under: This scheme wili  offered only  public sector PFMs, who have obtained registration under the PFRDA Registration  Pension Funds for Private Sector Guidelines - 2o12. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home PwC72 The system  distribution  funds among three PFMs,   present, wili  longer  available for corporate under the  scheme and the corporate wili have  choose only one PFM offering this scheme. Existing corporate sector subscribers under the  scheme: The existing three public sector PFMs SBI, UTI and LIC offering the  scheme wili introduce the corporate- scheme with effect from  November 2o12 with units  face value  INR  and  initiai Net Asset Value NAV  INR  per unit. The funds and assets  the existing  scheme with respect  corporate wili  transferred  the new scheme and proportionate units  the new corporate  scheme wili  allotted. The existing corporate under the  scheme are allowed  period   days from  November 2o12 . .    December 2o12  choose any one PFM for shifting their assets. Tili such time, the fee chargeable  them wili   applicable  centrai government employees, whereafter charges applicable  the private sector shali  levied. Regulatory FEMA SEBICorporate Tax Mergers and Acquisition  Transfer Pricing Indirect Taxes Regulatory Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Articles  Particulars  Articles  Publications Where Published Date Month  Publication Contributor Author Names  Domestic transfer pricing -  new Chapter  India   Landscape Taxmann  Internationai Taxation Magazine -Apr-2o12 Tarun Arora and Manish Sabharwai  Tax and Legai updates SICC Swiss India Chamber  Comm bulletin. Summer publication 2o12 Mayur Desai  India  Retaii Trading Sector - Some Recent Developments PwC Italy newsletter -Apr-2o12 Akash Gupt and Sahii Gupta  Interview  Cable  digitization www. mxmindia. com -May-2o12 Sahii Gupta  The Indian Kaliedoscope - Emerging trends  Retaii PwC Thought leadership -Sep-2o12 Goldie Dhama and Sahii Gupta  Overview  tax framework  India Decoding the Indian Aerospace and Defence Sector September 2o12 Kamai Abroi and Amit Singhai  Things  remember while filing Tax Returns The Economic Times -Jun-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  Understanding the New Tax Form The Economic Times -Apr-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  How should you deai with Income from Other Sources Mint -Jui-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  What  watch out for while filling  new ITR forms The Financiai Express -Apr-2o12 Chander Talreja  Should employed assesses file income tax returns  ali? Mint -Mar-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  Tax deduction  line with liability Outlook Money -Mar-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  Advantage high- income group The Indian Express -Mar-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  The new proposed tax slab Business World -Mar-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  Steps  -filing income tax returns Business Standard -Mar-2o12 Kuldip Kumar  Pre-budget expectations  personai taxation Reuters -Mar-2o12 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh  Budget 2o12: Benefits  individuals Reuters -Mar-2o12 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh  Budget 2o12, new income tax slabs and more:  ready reckoner Reuters -Mar-2o12 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh  Tax borne   employer -  non monetary perk The Hindu Business Line -Mar-2o12 Shuddhasattwa Ghosh  Retro  Not The New ! The Firm-Moneycontroi. com -Mar-2o12  Venkatachalam  Service returned with reverse charge The Hindu Business Line August 2o12  Ananthanarayanan  How budget affects your finances The Hindu Business Line -Mar-2o12 Kaushik Mukerjee and Ravi Jain  Tax challenges for foreign enterprises  India The Hindu Business Line -May-2o12 Kaushik Mukerjee and Ravi Jain   look  gift share  the mouth The Hindu Business Line  Chengappa Ponnappa  Widening the minimum tax net The Hindu Business Line -Aug-2o12 Anand Kakarla and Archana Korlimarla  Service tax and negative list The Hindu Business Line -Apr-2o12 Pramod Banthia   broader transfer pricing code The Hindu Business Line -May-2o12 Rakesh Mishra  Depreciation  goodwili The Hindu Business Line -Oct-2o12 Madhukar Dhakappa and Sunaina Agarwai  Too wide  net for indirect transfers The Hindu Business Line -May-2o12  Ramanujam and Ganesh Raju  From McDoweli  Vodafone The Hindu Business Line -Mar-2o12 Indraneei  ChaudhuryPwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home  Particulars  Articles  Publications Where Published Date Month  Publication Contributor Author Names  Asia Pacific Tax Notes PwC Hongkong Website and APTN Publication June- Pallavi Singhai and Vikash Baheti  Withholding tax provisions relating  non-residents The Hindu Business Line -Jui-2o12 Pallavi Singhai and Vikash Dhariwai  Discord  software taxability The Hindu Business Line -Jan-2o12 Pallavi Singhai and Vikash Dhariwai  Casting the tax net wide The Hindu Business Line -Apr-2o12 Indraneei  Chaudhury  Fuzzy logic  annuai maintenance contracts The Hindu Business Line -Jun-2o12 . Sriram and . Harisudhan  New Tax pitfalls for Multinationai acquisitions and restructuring  the age  fiscai shortfali Acquisition Internationai Journai August- Garry Stone and Ajith Choradia  Plugging tax leakages  tough times The Hindu Business Line -Aug-2o12   Ramachandran   matter  substance The Hindu Business Line -Jui-2o12  Venkatachalam   Affordable housing  Reality now  India? Tax Indiaonline -Apr-2o12 Anand Kakarla and Tikam Jain  Finance Bili 2o12 redefines Royalty Tax Indiaonline -Mar-2o12 Anand Kakarla and Archana Korlimarla  Widening the minimum tax net The Hindu Business Line -Apr-2o12 Anand Kakarla and Archana Korlimarla  Taxing foreign investor  profits  exit The Economic Times -Aug-2o12 Vivek Mehra  Tax-optimising your supply chain: the Franchise Modei Part   the  series Article - discusses the implementation issues  this modei  selected territories including Argentina, Brazii, Germany, France, India, Russia and , where Swiss  the FranchisorBloomberg BNA - Tax Planning Internationai Review Voi. .  .  October- Sanjay Tolia, Shilpa Udeshi and Hitesh Chauhan  GAAR: End  Strategic tax planning? Tax Indiaonline -Apr-2o12 Vijayashree  and Rahui Sarda  Tax residency certificate:  must for claim  benefits under DTAAs Tax Indiaonline -Mar-2o12 Vijayashree   Methods  relief under tax treaties Outlook Money -Jan-2o12 Sundeep Agarwai and Hitesh Sharma  Navigating tax laws  investment travels overseas The Hindu Business Line -Jun-2o12 Saloni . Khandelwai   Liability for Service Tax - But Stili Pay Income-tax  ! Petrofed Aprii-June 2o12 quarter editionShailesh Monani and Bhavin Sheth  Tax Ramifications   Foreign Corporation  using  service provider  the Host Country IndiaTax Management Internationai Forum -Sep-2o12 Shailesh Monani and Chandresh Bhimani  Article  investment banking BNA Transfer Pricing Internationai Journai October- Dhaivat Anjaria, Bhavik Timbadia and Bhavika Desai  GAAR   -  carefully planned approach Internationai Taxation July 2o12 Dheeraj Chaurasia and Parui Sarin  Vodafone - unintended consequences Internationai Taxation July 2o12 Dheeraj Chaurasia and Mallika Patney  GAAR-Recommendations  Parthasarathi Shome Committee Current Tax Reporter 2o12 253 CTR Articles  October- Sangeeta JainPwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home  Particulars  Articles  Publications Where Published Date Month  Publication Contributor Author Names  Indian chapter  severai unique aspects  transfer pricing BNA March- Rakesh Mishra, Madhawi Rathi, Ganesh Krishnamurthy, Abhishek Shukla and Umesh Rao  Indian chapter  Country Guide - Part  BNA May- Rahui  Mitra, Munjai Almoula, Prasad Pardiwalla, Gaurav Haldia  Globai Procurement Companies  India Transfer Pricing Challenges and the Way AheadBNA August- Rahui  Mitra, Amitava Sen and Rajneesh Verma  Indian chapter  the form  country responses  six rulings  Indian Tax Tribunals, published  Bloomberg BNA Transfer Pricing ForumBNA October- Sanjay Tolia, Tarun Arora, Ruhi Mehta and Shikha Gupta  CFC - this last resort? Business Standard -Feb- Ashutosh Chaturvedi and Dheeraj Chaurasia  Indian MnA - Taxing times ahead BNA -Feb- Praveen Bhambani and Dheeraj Chaurasia  Beneficiai ownership BNA November-  Venkatchalam and Dinesh Khator PwC Thought Leadership - Articles published Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Alerts .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date  Externai Commerciai Borrowings denominated  Indian Rupees - hedging facilities for non-resident lenders . . Dir Series Circular .  dated  September 2o11  January 2o12  Section 1oA deduction  available   new unit even though STPI approvai refers    expansion  existing unitACIT . Symantec Software India Pvt. Ltd. -765-ITAT- 2o11 PUN  January 2o12   business connection constituted  India for sale  GSM systems and payment for embedded software held  not  the nature  royalty DIT . Ericsson Radio System  -769--2o11 DEL  January 2o12  Payment for back-office finance support services not fees for technicai services Sheli Technology India Private Limited -76o-AAR-2o11  January 2o12  Income received   foreign company for granting film distribution rights not royalty ADIT . Warner Brothers Pictures Inc. -787-ITAT-2o11 Mum  January 2o12  Application for advance ruling  the payer not maintainable when the same issue  pending  proceedings for the payee Nuclear Power Corporation  India Ltd. ,   -761- AAR-2o11  January 2o12  Comparable uncontrolled price  the most appropriate method for determining the arm  length price  interest  loansAithent Technologies Pvt. Ltd. . ITO 2o1o-TII-134-ITAT-DEL-   January 2o12  Amendment Clarification  externai commerciai borrowing guidelines under automatic route . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  January 2o12  January 2o12  Loss  sale  shares  wholly owned subsidiary deductible  business loss DCIT . Colgate Palmolive India Limited ITA : 5485 Mum 2oo9  January 2o12  Loss  sale  shares  wholly owned subsidiary deductible  business loss ACIT . Maersk Gloai Service Centre India Pvt. Ltd. 2o11-TII- 133-ITAT-Mum-  January 2o12   penalty for inadvertent reporting  income Thomas Garbarek others,  . Daimler Chrysler India . DCIT -798-ITAT-2o11 PUN  January 2o12   dependent agent permanent establishment where Indian agents have independent business without authority  conclude contractsDDIT . Western Union Financiai Services Inc. --ITAT-2o12 Dei  January 2o12  Acceptance  forwarders cargo receipt  lieu  bili  lading  export transactions . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  January 2o12  January 2o12  Qualified Foreign Investors regime for investment  equity shares -  January 2o12  Gains arising  equity share transactions carried out   portfolio manager taxable  business income Radials Internationai . ACIT ITA . : 1368 Dei 2o1o  January 2o12  Restrictions  deductibility  expenses  apply even  income assessable  business income and not  fees for technicai services under tax treatyDIT . Rio Tinto Technicai Services  Ltd. 2o12-TII---DEL- INTL  January 2o12  Liberalisation  hedging commodity price risks  overseas exchange markets . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  January, 2o12  January 2o12  Landmark Supreme Court verdict  the Vodafone case . . .  . 26529  2o1o  January 2o12  Tax withholding applicable for payment towards manufacture  goods based  specification, know-how and brandCIT . Nova Nordisk Pharma India Ltd. ---2o12 Kar  February 2o12  Sharing  net revenues consistently  controlled and uncontrolled transactions held   valid comparable uncontrolled priceAgility Logistics Pvt. Ltd. 2o12 136 ITD  MUM.  February 2o12  Overseas subsidiary with single shareholder   separate legai entity for tax purposes AIA Engineering Ltd . Add CIT --ITAT-2o12 Ahd  February 2o12  Attribution  profits  permanent establishment  India  addition  arm  length remuneration paid  Indian agent upheldADIT . MTV Asia LDC --ITAT-2o12 Mum  February 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date  Business support services  advisory nature under  cost contribution agreement are consultancy services liable  tax withholdingSheli India Markets Pvt. Ltd. ,     AAR-2o12  February 2o12  Trading  way  -export  imported goods from  Speciai Economic Zone eligible for tax holiday DCIT . Goenka Diamonds and Jewellers Ltd --ITAT- 2o12 JPR  February 2o12  Convention  Mutuai Administrative Assistance  Tax Matters  amended  the 2o1o Protocoi signed  India   January 2o12-  February 2o12  Simplification  procedure for Externai Commerciai Borrowings . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  February, 2o12  February 2o12  Tax issues relating  assignment  keyman insurance policy   keyman  the case  three assesses namely, Escorts Heart Institute Research Centre Ltd, Rajan Nanda, Naresh Trehan -8o9- -2o11 DEL  February 2o12   support services provided  foreign company using hardware  India taxable  business profits AREVA   India Ltd.   --AAR-2o12  February 2o12  Liberalisation  procedures relating  export and import Source: . . DIR Series Circular .  and  dated  February 2o1223 February 2o12  Write off  urban advances   bank  available without any limit Catholic Syrian Bank Ltd. . CIT ---2o12  February 2o12  Court order sanctioning  scheme  amalgamation  demerger   instrument and conveyance liable  stamp dutyEmami Biotech Ltd. and others . State  West Bengai Company Application . 777  2o11  February 2o12  Competition Commission  India amends Combination Regulations -  February 2o12  Ruling  characterisation and reward for selling activity and other transfer pricing matters Mastek Ltd. . ACIT 2o12  taxmann. com 173 AHD.  March 2o12  Furnishing  annuai statement  tax department  relation  Liaison Offices  non-residents CBDT Notification .  2o12 dated  February, 2o12  March 2o12  Negative net worth   added  sale consideration for determining capitai gains  slump sale DCIT . Summit Securities Limited -14o-ITAT-2o12 Mum  March 2o12   tax withholding  remittance  Indian head office  foreign branch; Tax holiday available  sales made  Indian head office  foreign branchSemantic Space Technologies Ltd, . DCIT, -144-ITAT- 2o12 HYD  March 2o12  Report  the Standing Committee  Finance  DTC 2o1o Analysis  key recommendations Standing Committee  Finance the Committee  SCF  March 2o12  PwC Analysis publication  the Union Budget 2o12 India Union Budget 2o12  March 2o12  Buy-back  shares  wholly-owned subsidiary taxable  capitai gains RST,   AAR. . 1o67  2o11  March 2o12  Key amendments   Regulations  the Union Budget 2o12 Finance Bili 2o12  March 2o12  Tax holiday available   developer involved  mere development  infrastructure facility GVPR Engineers Ltd. Hyd. . ACIT -143-ITAT-2o12 HYD  March 2o12  Income   foreign university from distance learning course  not treated  royalty Hughes Escort Communications Ltd. . DCIT -158-ITAT- 2o12 DEL  March 2o12  Secondment agreement gives rise   service  and withholding tax despite  economic employment relationshipCentrica India Offshore Private Ltd . . -163-AAR-2o12  March 2o12  Tax reassessment invalid where the assessee has made requisite disclosures  the tax return Indivest Pte Ltd. . ADIT 2o12--166-BOM   March 2o12  Looking  the nature  transaction, consortium bidding and executing  turnkey project  taxable  association  persons, the contract cannot  dissected for tax purposesLinde , Linde Engineering Division . DCIT -17o-AAR-2o12  March 2o12  Tax Holiday under section 1oA available post slump sale  change  ownership  not   construed  reconstructionCIT . Sonata Software Ltd. -164--2o12 BOM  March 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date  Power sector reforms- SEZ guidelines revised . Vide Notification  .   2oo6-SEZ dated  March, 2o12 . Notification . .   2oo6-SEZ.  dated  February, 2oo928 March 2o12  Overseas direct investment   Indian party rationalisation . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  March, 2o12  March 2o12  Liberalisation  case  overseas direct investment  resident individuals . . DIR Series Circular .  dated  March, 2o12  March 2o12  India Exchange Controi - Liberalisation . . Dir Series Circular . ,  and 1oo dated  March 2o12o3 Aprii 2o12  Key requirements  new tax return forms for financiai year 2o11- CBDT Notification . . . 626  dated  March 2o12 for tax year 2o11-2o12  Aprii 2o12  Payment towards dredging operations does not constitute royalty and  withholding tax applicable DDIT . Dharti Dredging and Infrastructure Ltd. 2o12-TII-- ITAT-HYD  Aprii 2o12  Business and commerciai rights acquired  slump sale are eligible for tax depreciation Areva   India Ltd. . CIT -189--2o12 DEL  Aprii 2o12  Gains  sale  Compulsory Convertible Debentures   Mauritian entity -characterised  interest ,   AAR . 1o48  2o11  Aprii 2o12  High Court  decision  royalty discussing criteria for allowability and taxpayer  commerciai prudence CIT . EKL Appliances Ltd -2o6--2o12 Dei  Aprii 2o12  Transfer  shares  other interests pursuant   family arrangement  not  transfer and hence not liable  capitai gains taxCIT .  Nagaraja Rao -222--2o12 KAR  Aprii 2o12  Transfer  business undertaking under  Court approved scheme taxable  slump sale and hence liable  capitai gain taxSREI Infrastructure Finance Ltd. , -237--2o12 DEL  Aprii 2o12  Taxability  income  the hands   non-resident not  relevant consideration for treating  resident    agent   non-residentADIT . Jet Airways India Pvt. Ltd. 2o12  taxmann. com  Mum  Aprii 2o12  Benefit granted   charitable institution cannot  automatically extended  the substantially amended objects  the institutionThe Board  Controi for Cricket  India . ACIT -251- ITAT-2o12  Aprii 2o12  Deeming provisions under section 5oC applicable only  capitai assets and not  sale  land held  stock- -tradeCIT . Kan Construction and Colonizers Pvt. Ltd. -252-- 2o12 ALL  Aprii 2o12  Liberalistaion  Externai Commerciai Borrowing guidelines . . DIR Series Circular . 111 and 112 dated Aprii , 2o12 and Circular . 113 dated  Aprii 2o1226 Aprii 2o12   withholding tax  reimbursement  salary costs  personnei under  secondment agreement ITO . PQR India -258-ITAT-2o12 Bang  Aprii 2o12  Deduction under section 1oA  the Act    allowed  business profits levei CIT . Black and Veatch Consulting Pvt. Ltd. -26o-- 2o12 BOM  Aprii 2o12  Revenue sharing under  franchisee agreement not liable  withholding tax CIT . Career Launcher India Ltd. -257--2o12 Dei  Aprii 2o12  Itemised sale  assets,  substance, held    slump sale taxable under section - Mahindra Engineering Chemicai Products Ltd . ITO -253- ITAI-2o12 Mum  May 2o12  Commission for reinsurance  risk not taxable  fees for technicai services DIT . Internationai reinsurance broker -271--2o12 Dei  May 2o12  RPM not TNMM appropriate for distribution; losses are  account  business strategy;  motive  shift profits  margins  associated enterprises are reasonableITO .  oreai India Pvt. Ltd. -293-ITAT-2o12 Mum  May 2o12  Additionai depreciation cannot  denied  the assessee merely  the ground that electricity  not  article  thingN. . . . Ltd. . DCIT -291-ITAT-2o12 DEL  May 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date  Ordinary profits . Arm  length price for tax holiday units Visuai Graphics Computing Services India Pvt. Ltd. . ACIT - 274-ITAT-2o12 Chny  May 2o12  Subscription fees received for sociai media monitoring services for market intelligence taxable  royalty ThoughtBuzz Pvt. Ltd. ,   -3oo-AAR-2o12 Dei  May 2o12  Recent amendments notified  the Reserve Bank  India -  May 2o12  Only controlled transactions  tested party and only similar uncontrolled transactions  comparables   consideredMicrosoft Corporation, Inc. . Office  Tax and Revenue; Case . 2o1o-OTR-ooo12  May 2o12  May 2o12  Mean  advertising spend  companies  same industry cannot  ALP for advertising expenditure   incurred  taxpayer, and  also not correct application  TNMMACIT . Genom Biotech Pvt. Ltd. -326-ITAT-2o12 Mum  May 2o12  Benefit  indexation available  redemption  redeemable preference shares CIT . Enam Securities Pvt Ltd -324--2o12 Bom  May 2o12  Payment made for airborne geophysicai survey services  not FTS CIT .  Beers India Minerals Pvt. Ltd. -312--2o12 Kar  May 2o12  Revenue cannot question the business commerciai expediency behind transactions;  can only ascertain whether the transaction   arm  lengthEricsson India Pvt. Ltd. . DCIT -319-ITAT-2o12 DeL  May 2o12  Internai guidelines and updated FAQs released  the Indian provident fund and pension scheme applicable  internationai workers-  May 2o12    created  liaison office  absence  any violation noted  RBI Metai One Corporation . DDIT -356-ITAT-2o12 DEL  May 2o12  Payment  foreign company for   cost allocation taxable under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the India- Germany Tax Treaty  Systems AAR .   2o1o  May 2o12  Advertisement collection agent  foreign telecasting company does not create  ; arm  length remuneration  agents extinguishes further attribution  PEDDIT  . B4U Internationai Holdings Ltd. -358-ITAT-2o12 Mum  June 2o12  Reduction  share  partners  reconstitution  firm  not relinquishment  right and hence, not  taxable transferCIT .   Panjawani -351--2o12 Kar  June 2o12  Inspection and boroscoping activity carried out  India not taxable; Turbine overhaui services taxable   grants non-exclusive royalty free licenseSolar Turbines Internationai Company,   -367-AAR-2o12  June 2o12  Consideration received for providing technicai personnei taxable  fees for included services under India-  tax treatyAvion Systems Inc . DDIT -37o-ITAT-2o12 Mumbai  June 2o12  Weighted deduction available for   expenditure incurred outside the approved facility; Profit  tax holiday unit computed  considering actuai sale price and costs attributable thereof, including  costs allocationCadila Healthcare Ltd. . ACIT -354-ITAT-2o12 Ahd  June 2o12  Indian subsidiary undertaking group  internationai express business  India constitutes  permanent establishmentAramex Internationai Logistics Pvt Ltd,   -388-AAR-2o12  June 2o12  Disallowance under section 14A not applicable  income  SEZ units eligible for tax holiday deductions Meditap Specialities Pvt. Ltd. . ACIT -393-ITAT-2o12 Mum  June 2o12  Consortium creates  association  person, and income from    whole, taxable  India Alstom Transport ,   -387-AAR-2o12  June 2o12  Shipping magazines rates accepted  CUP for charter hire payment for vessels after suitable comparability adjustmentsReliance Industries Ltd . ACIT -368-ITAT-2o12 Mum  June 2o12  OECD releases discussion draft for revision  Chapter  Intangibles  OECD  Guidelines -  June 2o12  OECD releases Discussion Draft  Safe Harbours -  June 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date  More profit from related than unrelated parties does not itself make  more than ordinary Electricity Board rates also used  support; profit comparison   done for individuai related partiesOPG Energy Pvt. Ltd.  DCIT, Chennai -382-ITAT-2o12 CHYN  June 2o12  Same income cannot  taxed twice  Natarajan . . ACIT -386-ITAT-2o12 CHNY  June 2o12  Supplementary Memorandum  officiai amendments moved  the Finance Bili, 2o12 -  June 2o12  Relaxation  externai commerciai borrowing norms Manufacturing and infrastructure sector borrowers -  June 2o12  Domestic law prevails   provision exists for  particular head  income under the tax treaty DCIT . TVS Electronics Ltd. -421-ITAT-2o12 Chny  June 2o12  Income from domestic related party cannot  adjusted  applying transfer pricing provisions under section 4oA   the ActDurga Rice Gen Mills .  -446-ITAT-2o12 Chandi  June 2o12  Draft guidelines regarding implementation  Generai Anti Avoidance Rules  terms  section 1o1  the Income-tax Act, 1961http: www. pib. nic.   July 2o12  Splitting   project into  set  contracts for offshore and onshore components not  disregarded Dongfang Electric Corporation . DDIT -434-ITAT-2o12 Koi  July 2o12  Purchasing shares   very high price and selling them   lower price   group concern within  short span  time - not  genuine transaction, capitai loss disallowedPremier Synthetic industries  ITO -444--2o12 Mad  July 2o12 1oo Sale  shares  the promoters not sale  investment but sale  entire business and thus taxable  business incomeSumeet Taneja . ACIT -412-ITAT-2o12 Chandi  July 2o12 1o1 Definition  excluded employee expanded for speciai provisions applicable  internationai workers under the Indian sociai security regulationsNotification . . -35o25  2o11 - dated  May, 2o12 - Ministry  Labour and Employment. Source: http: www. epfindia. com Circulars Y2o12- Coord_EPFSch_IW_3927. pdf  July 2o12 1o2 Income from Container Freight Stationbe eligible for deduction under section -   the Income-tax Act, 1961 Ali Cargo Globai Logistics Ltd . DCIT -345-ITAT-2o12 Mum  July 2o12 1o3 RBI -opens foreign currency convertible bonds buyback window RBI   DIR Series Circular .  dated  July 2o12  July 2o12 1o4 Time charter hire charges not taxable  royalty but subject  deemed taxability under section 172  the Income-tax Act, 1961Poompuhar Shipping Corporation Ltd. . ADIT 2o12  SOT 451 Chennai  July 2o12 1o5 Surplus arising  amalgamation  adopting purchase method  accounting not taxable  business income under section    the Income-tax Act, 1961Spencer and company Ltd. . ACIT 2o12  taxmann. com 459 Chennai  July 2o12 1o6 Transfer  shares  parent company  book value cannot  treated   sham Euro RSCG Advertising Pvt. Ltd. . ACIT -496-ITAT-2o12 Mum  July 2o12 1o7  capitai gains tax  transfer  shares held  Indian companies: Supreme Court decision  the case  Azadi Bachao Andolan upheldDynamic India Fund ,   -513-AAR-2o12  July 2o12 1o8 Bad debts not  factor relevant  determination  arm  length price for royalty CIT .  Computer Associates India Pvt. Ltd. 2o12 252 CTR 164 BOM.  July 2o12 1o9 Tax planning within the legai framework  the law  permissible AVM Capitai Services Pvt. Ltd. -512--2o12 Mum  July 2o12 11o Tax holiday continues post merger, benefit attached  the undertaking and not  ownership Renuga Textiles Mills Ltd. . CIT -517--2o12 Mad.  July 2o12 111 ESOP cost accounted  books  per SEBI guidelines held   staff welfare expenditure and eligible for deductionCIT . PVP Ventures Ltd -514--2o12 Mad CIT . Spray Engineering Device Ltd. -516-ITAT-2o12 Chand  July 2o12 112 Reimbursement  salary and other administration costs under secondment agreement not Fees for Technicai Services and not liable  tax withholdingAbbey Business Services India Pvt. Ltd. . DCIT -532-ITAT- 2o12 Bang  July 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date 113 Consideration  sale  shares chargeable  tax  the year  transfer, notwithstanding that  part  the consideration  deferredAjay Guliya . ACIT -52o--2o12 Dei ITO . Indira  Shete -562-ITAT-2o12 Mum  August 2o12 114 Penalty not leviable where assessee provides  bona fide explanation  where assessee made error under  bona fide beliefEmilio Ruiz Berdejo,   Tetra Pak India Ltd  DCIT -547- ITAT-2o12 PUN  August 2o12 115 Taxability  salary received  India for overseas services and tax year   followed under  tax treaty when tax years  countries are differentBholanath Pai . ITO 2o12  SOT 369 BANG.  August 2o12 116 Speciai Leave Petition not permitted directly before the Supreme Court against the ruling  the Authority for Advance Tax RulingsColumbia Sport swear Company . DIT -549--2o12  August 2o12 117   allocation    costs fully deductible, section 44C restriction inapplicable John Wyeth Brother Ltd. . ACIT -567-ITAT-2o12 Mum  August 2o12 118 Capitai gains  direct and indirect transfer  shares  Indian company  Mauritius tax resident not taxable  India under India-Mauritius DTAA;  case  corporate owners, legai ownership  shares outweighs beneficiai ownership for determining taxability  capitai gainsMoody  Analytics Inc, USA. ,   2o12  taxmann. com  AAR  August 2o12 119 Tax paid  employer  behalf  employees qualifies  non-monetary perquisite exempt from tax DIT  . Sedco Forex Internationai Drilling Inc others - 6o3--2o12 UTT  August 2o12 12o Cancellation  registration   cricket association trust upheld  its activities were for commerciai puposes and were not charitable  natureMumbai Cricket Association . DIT Exemption, Mumbai - 59o-ITAT-2o12- Mum  August 2o12 121 AAR doubts genuineness  inter-corporate gifts, calls   strange transaction Orient Green Power Pte Ltd.   -6o8-AAR-2o12  August 2o12 122 Transfer pricing, minimum alternate tax and filing  return applicable  capitai gains earned  foreign company eligible for exemption under tax treatyCastleton Investment Ltd,   -6o7-AAR-2o12  August 2o12 123 For attribution  profits  ,  cannot simply apply Rule  without rejecting  study for proper reasonsHyundai Rotem Company . Asst. DIT -612-ITAT-2o12 DEL  August 2o12 124 Formation conditions under section 1oA  the Income-tax Act   tested  the first year  claim CIT . Western Outdoor Interactive Pvt. Ltd. -614-- 2o12 Bom  August 2o12 125 Consideration for repairs and refurbishment  damaged turbines paid  non-residents not fees for technicai service ADIT . BHEL--Gas Turbine Servicing Pvt. Ltd. -576- ITAT-2o12 Hyd.  August 2o12 126 Vesting  shares   Indian company pursuant   overseas upstream merger not liable  capitai gains tax - exemption under section  via  not available due  inability  satisfy one  the prescribed conditionsCredit Suisse Internationai Holding ,   -626- AAR-2o12  August 2o12 127 Capitai gains earned   Indian resident  sale  shares   Sri Lankan entity not taxable  India Apollo Hospitai Enterprises Ltd. . DCIT -6o9-ITAT- 2o12 CHNY  August 2o12 128 Goodwili arising  amalgamation   asset eligible for depreciation CIT . Smifs Securities Ltd. -639--2o12  August 2o12 129 Application  Authority for Advance Rulings does not lie where  tax return  submitted before making the applicationNetApp , Sin Oceanic Shipping ASA.  . , -619--2o12 Dei  August 2o12 13o Advance Pricing Agreement Rules notified -  August 2o12 131 Expert Committee Report  Generai Anti Avoidance Rules -  September 2o12 132 Applicability  capitai gains tax, transfer pricing provisions and exemption under section    buyback  shares   Indian companyArmstrong World Industries Mauritius Multiconsult Ltd. ,   -628-AAR-2o12  September 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date 133 Payment for satellite -linking and telecasting programmes not royalty  fees for technicai services Channei Guide India Ltd. . ACIT -662-ITAT-2o12 Mum  September 2o12 134 Adjustment  excess contributions made  pension fund  Indian employees holding certificate  coverage and deputed   country with which India has  sociai security agreement  allowedhttp: www. epfindia. com Circulars Y2o12- IWU_16266. pdf  September 2o12 135 AAR rejects application  the share arrangement flouted the SEBI guidelines and impaired public interest even though  tax avoidance motive existedMahindra- Investment . Mauritius Ltd. ,   2o12  taxmann. com 296 AAR  September 2o12 136 Managing Director  remuneration should  allocated between tax holiday units; implications under domestic transfer pricing provision need   consideredNahar Spinning Mills Ltd. . JCIT -622-ITAT-2o12 Chandi  September 2o12 137 Payment for acquisition  capacity  undersea cables taxable  royalty Dishnet Wireless Ltd. ,   2o12  taxman. com 298 AAR  September 2o12 138 PwC Transfer Pricing Resource - Answering queries - Indian Advance Pricing Agreement Scheme -  September 2o12 139 Installation services inextricably linked  supply  equipment not taxable under the India-Canada tax treaty though can  taxed under the ActDCIT . Dodsai Pvt. Ltd. -675-ITAT-2o12 Mum  September 2o12 14o Goodwili   intangible asset eligible for depreciation Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd. . CIT -682--2o12 Bom  September 2o12 141 Gift  shares  shareholders  the company not  sham transaction and the subsequent sale results  capitai gainsCIT . Nadatur Holdings and Investments Pvt. Ltd. -656- -2o12 KAR  September 2o12 142 Section 1oA deduction available before setting-off domestic tariff area unit  current year  weli  brought forward lossCIT . TEI Technologies Pvt. Ltd. -665--2o12 Dei  September 2o12 143 PwC India Regulatory News Alert - Liberalisation  Externai Commerciai Borrowing and Trade Credit Policy -  September 2o12 144 Sale  pledged shares   loss   group company  offset gains  not  colourable transaction ACIT . Biraj Investment Pvt. Ltd. 2o12  Taxmann. com 273 Guj  September 2o12 145 Retrospective amendment  domestic law cannot  read into tax treaty - payment for supply  software embedded  hardware not taxable  royalty even after retrospective amendmentDIT . Nokia Networks  -7oo--2o12 Dei  September 2o12 146 Determination  taxable income   life insurance company  accordance with section  , read with Rule   the First Schedule , the ActICICI Prudentiai Insurance . Ltd. . ACIT ITA . 6854, 6855, 6856 and 6o59  2o1o  September 2o12 147 CUP upheld   the most appropriate method for benchmarking broking transactions; arithmetic mean and not weighted average   considered for determining ALP; adjustments for differences  volume and functions need   considered RBS Equities India Ltd, Formerly known  ABN AMRO Asia Equities India Ltd. . ACIT . . . . 3o77 Mum 2oo9 for  2oo3- and . . . . 1236 Mum 2o1o for  2oo5-o618 September 2o12 148 Relief granted  High Court  errors  revenue while processing withholding tax credit and  granting tax refundCourt  its own motion . CIT -677--2o12 Dei  September 2o12 149 Maintenance  separate books  accounts for tax holiday unit not  pre-requisite  avaii deduction under section 8oHH 8oI  the Act CIT . Bongaigaon Refinery and Petrochemicai Ltd. -695- -2o12  September 2o12 15o Arm  length price for sourcing services cost based remuneration modei adjudged most appropriate for limited risk procurement support service providerGAP Internationai Sourcing India Pvt. Ltd . ACIT ITA Nos. 5147 Dei 2o11  2oo6- and 228 Dei 2o12  2oo7-  September 2o12 151 Extraordinary profits does not necessarily imply that business transacted was arranged    result  high profitsCIT . Schmetz India Pvt. Ltd. -7o2--2o12 Bom  October 2o12 152 Delhi High Court lays down law  -opening  income-tax assessments under section 147  the Income- tax Act, 1961CIT . Usha Internationai Ltd. -259--2o12 DEL  October 2o12 153 India chapter    draft Practicai Manuai   for Developing Countries -  October 2o12PwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home .  Issue Ruling Notification etc. Date 154 Expert Committee Report  Retrospective Amendments Relating  Indirect Transfer -  October 2o12 155 Unabsorbed depreciation allowed   set off against long-term capitai gains Suresh Industries Pvt Ltd . ACIT -771-ITAT-2o12 Mum  October 2o12 156 Gift  shares   foreign company prior  June 2o1o treated  capitai receipt, exempted under section  iii  the ActDP World Pvt Ltd . DCIT -767-ITAT-2o12 Mum  October 2o12 157 Internationai workers from sociai security agreement countries allowed  withdraw provident fund early Notification . . . -35o25  2o11-- dated  October, 2o12  the Ministry  Labour and Employment, Government  India19 October 2o12 158 Indian chapter  Country responses  six rulings  Indian Tax Tribunals -  November 2o12 159 Draft Tax Accounting Standards issued  the Centrai Board  Direct Taxes -  November 2o12 16o Updated FAQs released  Indian provident fund and pension scheme applicable  Internationai workers -  November 2o12 161 Externai commerciai borrowing for  spectrum allocation -  November 2o12 162 Various factors   evaluated while pricing guarantee commission - universai application   particular rate rejected, and instead, internai CUP acceptedEverest Kanto Cylinder Ltd. . DCIT -714-ITAT-2o12 Mum -   November 2o12 163 Deduction under section 1oB    allowed before set-off  brought forward loss and unabsorbed depreciationACIT . Charon Tec . Ltd -841-ITAT-2o12 CHNY  December 2o12 164 CBDT notifies valuation methodology for computing FMV under section   viib  the Act -  December 2o12 165 Income from seismic data procurement and processing services relating  oii exploration taxable under the presumptive schemeOHM Ltd.   2o11-TII--ARA-INTL  December 2o12 166 Recent guidelines issued  Employees Provident Fund Organisation  the definition  basic wages and conducting inquiry -  December 2o12 167 Sociai Security Agreement signed between India and Japan -  December 2o12 . . Issue Date  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - January 2o12  January 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - February 2o12  March 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - March 2o12  Aprii 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - Aprii 2o12  May 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - May 2o12  June 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - June 2o12  August 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - July 2o12  September 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - August 2o12  September 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - September 2o12  October 2o12  PwC Newsletter: India Spectrum - October 2o12  November 2o12India SpectrumPwC Thought Leadership - Alerts releasedArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home SSAs signed but not notified: Hungary   February 2o1o Czech Republic   June 2o1o Norway   October 2o1o Finland   June 2o12 Canada   November 2o12 Japan   November 2o12 Sweden   November 2o12Sr. . Country Effective Date  Belgium  September 2oo9  Germany  October 2oo9  Switzerland  January 2o11  Luxembourg  June 2o11  France  July 2o11  Denmark  May 2o11  Korea  November 2o11  Netherlands  December 2o11 Sociai Security AgreementsSr. . Country Date  notification  Bermuda Notification .  2o11 . . 5o3  2oo9-FTD-, dated  January 2o11  Bahamas Notification .  2o11 . . 5o3  2oo9-FTD-, dated  May 2o11  Isle  Man Notification .  2o11 . . 5o3  2oo8 - FTD-, dated  May 2o11  British Virgin Islands Notification .  2o11 . . 5o3  2oo9-FTD-, dated  October 2o11  Cayman Islands Notification .  2o11 . . 5o3  2oo9-FTD- . . 29o2 , dated  December 2o11  Jersey Notification .  2o12 . . 5o3  2oo8-FTD- . . 1541 , dated  July 2o12  Guernsey Notification .  2o12 . . 5o3  2oo9-FTD-  1782 , dated  August 2o12  Liberia Notification .  2oo12- - . . 5o3  2o1o- -  1877 , dated  August 2o12List  Tax Information Exchange Agreements TIEAs DTAAsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home . . Country Date  notification . Armenia GSR . 8oo  --2oo4 . Australia GSR .   --1992 . Austria GSR . 682  --2oo1 . Bangladesh GSR . 758  -- . Belarus GSR . 392  -- . Belgium GSR . 323  -- corrected  416  --; supplemented  321  --; 632  --;    --2oo1 . Botswana . . 1494  . . 2oo8 . Brazii GSR . 381  -- . Bulgaria GSR . 2o5  -- . Canada GSR . 11o8  -- amended  635  --; Circular . 638 --;   -- . China GSR . 331  --; 574  -- . Cyprus GSR . 8o5  -- . Czech Republic GSR . 811  -- . Czechoslovakia GSR . 526  -- corrected  659  -- . Denmark GSR . 853  -- . Egypt . . . GSR . 2363 --; . Federai Republic  Germany GSR . 1o9o -- supplemented  . . 5o4 -- and 68o  -- amended  6o9  -- . Finland GSR . 786  -- amended  495  -- . France GSR . 26o --197o corrected  394 -- replaced  681  --; amended   65o  --2ooo, . . 21o6  . . 2oo9 . Germany Democratic Republic GDR East German GSR . 1o7  -- applicable   -- Circular . 639 -- . Georgia . .   dated . . 2o12 . Greece GSR . 394 dated -- . Hungary GSR . 282  -- corrected  623  --; GSR . 197  --2oo5 . Iceland GSR . 241  . . 2oo8 . Indonesia GSR .   -- corrected  54o  -- . Ireland GSR . 1o5  --2oo2 and addendum . 212  --2oo2 . Israei GSR . 256  -- . Italy GSR . 6o8  -- corrected  346  -- . Italy revised GSR . 189  -- . Japan GSR . 1o1  --, . . 1136  . . 2oo6 . Jordan Hashemite Kingdom GSR . 81o  -- . Kazakstan GSR . 633  -- . Kenya GSR . 665  --85Double Taxation Avoidance AgreementsArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home . . Country Date  notification . Kuwait GSR . 2oo1  . . 2oo7 . Kyrgyz Republic GSR .   --2oo1 . Libyan Arab Jamahiriya GSR . 484  -- . Luxembourg .  --2oo9 . Malaysia GSR . 167  --; GSR . 667  --2oo4 . Malta GSR . 761  -- . Mauritius GSR . 92o  -- corrected  816  -- . Mongolia  . 635  --  Montenegro .   . . 2oo9 . Morocco GSR . 245  --2ooo . Myanmar . . 1518  . . 2oo9 . Namibia GSR . 196  --, . Nepai GSR . 1146  -- . Netherlands GSR . 382  --; modified  693  -- . New Zealand GSR . 314  -- corrected  477  -- . Norway GSR . 756  -- corrected  1o24  -- . Oman Sultanate  GSR . 563  -- . Pakistan GSR .  --1947, -- Not operative from . . 1972- . Philippines GSR . 173  -- . Poland GSR .   -- . Portuguese Republic GSR . 542  --2ooo . State  Qatar GSR .   --2ooo . Romania GSR .   -- . Russian Federation GSR . 5o7  -- . SAARC .   . . 2o11 . Serbia . .   . . 2oo9 . South Africa GSR . 198  . . 1998 . Singapore GSR .   -- corrected  371  -- replaced  61o  -- . . 2o31  dated . . 2o11 . Slovenia GSR . 344  . . 2oo5 2oo5 . Spain GSR . 356  -- . South Korea GSR . 1111  -- modified  986  --; 198  -- . Sri Lanka Ceylon GSR . 342  -- corrected  788  -- . Sudan GSR . 723  --2oo4 . Sweden GSR .   --; 7o5  --97Articles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home . . Country Date  notification . Switzerland GSR . 357  --;   . . 2oo1 . Swiss Federation . , 2o93  dated . . 2o11 . Syria Syrian Arab Republic GSR . 5o8  --; 884  . . 2oo9 . Taipei . . 2o4o  dated . . 2o11 . Tajikistan GSR . 1758  . . 2oo9 . Tanzania GSR . 559  -- corrected  451  -- . Thailand GSR . 915  -- corrected  478  . Trinidad Tobago GSR . 72o  -- . Turkey GSR .   -- . Turkmenistan GSR . 567  -- . . . . GSR . 71o  --; . 2oo1  . . 2oo7 . United Kingdom  Great Britain and Northern Ireland GSR . 612  --; corrected  GSR 772  --;   -- . United Mexican States . . 2846  . . 2o1o . United States  America GSR . 99o  -- corrected  342  -- . United State  Soviet Russia GSR . 812  -- amended  952  --; 5o7  -- . Uganda GSR . 666  --2oo4 . Ukraine GSR .   --2oo2 . Uzbekistan  . 79o  -- . Vietnam GSR . 369  -- . Zambia GSR .   -- . . Country Notification  Afghanistan GSR 514 , dated . . 1975  Ethiopia GSR  , dated . . 1978  corrected  Notification . GSR 159 , dated . . 1978  Iran GSR 284 , dated . . 1973  Lebanon Nos. GSR 1552 and 1553, dated . . 1969  Maldives   , dated . . 2o11  Notification .  2o11  Pakistan GSR 792 , dated . . 1989  Peoples Democratic Republic  Yemen GSR 857 , dated . . 1988  SAARC Countries   , dated . . 2o11  Notification .  2o11List  Limited Tax TreatiesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home Glossary AAR Authority for advance rulings  Authorised Dealer ADR American Depository Receipts  Associated enterprise AIF Alternate Investment Fund ALP Arm  length price AOP Association  persons ARC Asset Reconstruction Company  Assessment year  Branch Office CAG Comptroller and Auditor Generai CBEC Centrai Board  Excise Customs CENVAT Centrai value added tax CESTAT Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunai CIC Core Investment Companies CIT  Commissioner  Income-tax Appeals CME Capitai Market Exposure CoR Certificate  Registration CRE Commerciai Reai Estate Exposure CUP Comparable uncontrolled price DIPP Department  Policy and Promotion DGCA Director Generai for Civii Aviation DGP Director Generai  Police DoT Department  Telecommunication  Depository Participant DRP Dispute Resolution Panei ECB Externai Commerciai Borrowings FCCB Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds FDI Foreign Direct Investment FEMA Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 FII Foreign institutionai investor FMV Fair market value FOB free--board FTS Fees for technicai servicesFVCI Foreign Venture Capitai Investor  Financiai year GAAR Generai Anti-abuse rule GIC Generai Insurance Companies GDR Globai Depository Receipt  High Court HFC Housing Finance Company  Head office ICDR Issue  Capitai and Disclosure Requirements regulations IVCU Indian Venture Capitai Undertakings  Liaison office LLP Limited Liability Partnership MAM Most appropriate method MBRT Multi Brand Retaii Trading MoU Memorandum  Understanding MSME Micro Smali and Medium Enterprises MMoU Multilaterai Memorandum  Understanding NBFC Non-Banking Financiai Companies NHB Nationai Housing Bank  Non-resident NOF Net Owned Fund  Permanent establishment PLI Profit levei indicator PFRDA Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority PMS Portfolio Management Services  Project office QFI Qualified Institutionai Investor RBI The Reserve Bank  India RPM Resale price method SAD Speciai additionai duty SAT Securities appellate tribunai SAST Substantiai Acquisition  Shares and Takeover RegulationsSC Supreme Court SEBI The Securities Exchange Board  India SIA Secretariat for Industriai Assistance SLP Speciai leave petition SPV Speciai Purpose Vehicle STP Software technology park TED Terminai excise duty The Act The Income-tax Act, 1961 The Rules The Income tax Rules, 1962 The tax treaty Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement The Tribunai The Income-tax Appellate Tribunai TNMM Transaction net margin method  Tax officer  Transfer pricing TPO Transfer pricing officer TRC Tax residency certificate TRAI Telecom Regulatory Authority  India VAT Value added tax VCF Venture Capitai Fund WOS Wholly owned subsidiaryArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home NotesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home NotesArticles Alerts DTAAs Glossary Home About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  287 January 2o13 Tax Glimpses. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India