Title: pwc_enterprise-mobility-putting-people-first
Date Published: 2013-10-25 08:07:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_enterprise-mobility-putting-people-first.pdf
Word Count: 5378
Sentence Count: 418
Average Sentence Length: 19.84

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
mobility: 145
enterprise: 140
organisations: 58
devices: 48
applications: 45
mobile: 44
solutions: 40
management: 37
security: 36
data: 35
wili: 34
business: 33
company: 32
pwc: 31
access: 31
employees: 30
systems: 29
india: 28
device: 26
application: 26

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Enterprise mobility Putting people first www. pwc.  Aegis Graham Beli Awards 2o13,  October 2o13, Delhi Introduction  Enterprise mobility ecosystem  Trends p12 Challenges p2o Experiences p21 The road ahead p24  are perhaps living  the best times  terms  connectivity when out  the totai seven billion, six billion people are connected  each other through mobile phones. However, the fuli potentiai  this power  yet   explored.  the work force  becoming increasingly mobile and the consumers  longer like  wait for what they want, enterprises are gearing   harness this power for  competitive advantage. They have realized the perks  putting people first and they are now not only providing mobile phones  their employees, they are even and making apps for their customers. Enterprise mobility  gaining considerable momentum with the empowerment  both the employees and customers resulting  significant economic gain.   Aegis, first experienced the power  mobile phones   weli connected world when  launched mMBA which  MBA  tablets  2o11.  took the learning from the classrooms  the palm  our students which were mainly working professionals  telecom companies. Wherever-whenever and  time- place are our two concepts that helped them balance between work and the learning process. They are now able  access their study materiai  their tablets while travelling which results   effective utilisation  their time. Within three years  reached from New Mumbai  other Indian cities and countries like Africa, Maldives, the Middle East, Afghanistan, Indonesia and Philippine. The mobility  our platform eliminated the location barrier for the faculty members and they were able  teach their students from different parts  the world from the living rooms. This further helped Aegis  addressing the challenges   growing cost, unavailability  faculty, scale, relevance and effectiveness. This year,  saw  good number  amazing innovations  the enterprise mobility area presented  Aegis Graham Beli Awards  Indian  weli internationai companies. These innovations have the power  revolutionise business and bring the customer  centre stage.  believe that this joint report  Aegis and PwC wili help the Indian enterprises  embrace Enterprise Mobility. Bhupesh Daheria Founder, Aegis Graham Beli AwardFounder, mUniversity CEO, Aegis Schooi  Business The game  the future  about employee efficiency, effectiveness and quality how can  employees react faster, have improved and quicker access  information, and can demonstrate high levei  commitments  their clients wherever they happen  ; ali through the power   computing device  their hands. - Sivarama Krishnan, Executive Director, PwC India Dear friend, Not far from where  office   Gurgaon, are the India headquarters  the world  leading FMCG company.   casuai meeting with the CEO,  asked him what made his company  businesses  ali geographies and across every product category, such  huge success.  really put people first,  said, and laid speciai emphasis  the really.  wonder how many business leaders can make such  emphatic claim  behalf  their organisations. Fortunately, today, more than ever before, this   much easier.  deeper understanding  the employees, partners and clients,  improved technology and weli established processes together enable the organisations  become people advocates. With respect  technology, organisations today are embracing enterprise mobility  more ways than one  really put people first.   recent survey  PwC  emerging technologies and their impact,  overwhelming majority  -suites polled cited enterprise mobility  the most important game changer for their businesses. Through this report, PwC has defined the broad contours  enterprise mobility  India: the ecosystem, the emerging trends, challenges and the overali opportunity for businesses.  wish  remind you that the future  smarter businesses wili continue  rest with the smart people; our employees, partners and clients. While the enterprise mobility movement has been evolving around technology, processes, users etc. ,   only now that organisations are beginning  adopt  integrated approach towards using enterprise mobility   tooi  enhance employee productivity and satisfaction. While technology has been the main stay for the graduai adoption  enterprise mobility solutions  organisations  the country, today they are significantly taking  more people centric view  architecting their enterprise mobility ecosystem. This   pleasant surprise and implies that  wili witness hyper growth  enterprise mobility   gets dimensioned  need and requirements rather than capabilities. Aptly, this report focuses  the key areas that wili inform decision making  the adoption and use  enterprise mobility solutions  the years  come.  provides  comprehensive view  how organisations can leverage enterprise mobility for creating value. Sivarama Krishnan, Executive Director, PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Introduction   publish this report, the Indian economy  going through one  its most difficult times. The downfali  the rupee, challenges with the land reforms bili slowing FDI, shortage  FII money  India  secondary markets and the changes  the rule books are ali responsible for the worsening economic sentiment  the country. Understandably, corporate India  responding very aggressively albeit not always wisely  these developments. Most companies are actively working  taking out costs  improve margins  what  clearly  very challenging market condition. Measures announced  India Inc. include saving  travei and administrative expenses, retrenchment  non performing  under-performing employees, outsourcing the non-core activities, selling off the non-core businesses and operationai improvements resulting  efficiency gains, reduction  wastage and  better utilisation  assets. These bottom line focused measures clearly demonstrate that the market sentiment for  recovery  low and distant.  the wake  this, organisations are trying  find solutions that wili enable improved performance  lower investments. One important area that severai leading organisations are focussing   enterprise mobility. Enterprise mobility, wherein, the organisation enables employees, partners and customers  access and work  organisationai technology platforms and where enablers through any device- tablets, laptops personai and smart-phones, seamlessly through  secure virtuai environment are gaining ground. Technology and market forces are the two important facets  enterprise mobility. Technology  thrusting for ubiquitous computing and consumerisation  technology while the market forces are focussed  exploration and adoption  new business models and being more agile. Technology with key drivers like hyper competition, globalisation, digitised processes and  scarcity  the right skills  making  compelling case for enterprise mobility. The interplay  market and industry forces  driving companies  consider new business models Source: PwC Enterprise mobility  not  new thing.  fact,  took its very first fledgling steps way back  the 198os with the roli-out  the first company-wide telephonic networks. Over the years, the concept has become more encompassing. Three generations  enterprise mobility have been identified.  the 198os-199os enterprise mobility came   identified with voice communication through land line phones  conjunction with the use  facsimiles and telegraphs.  the 199os-2ooos enterprise mobility moved  the mobile platform through paging systems followed  early stage  the mobile phones. Application levei enterprise mobility , however,  fairly recent phenomenon.  started  2oo7 when the improvements  security and technology platforms enabled access  corporate applications. Market Forces Industry Forces Mobile Computin  Ubiquitous Computin  Consumerisatio   technology Price WarsNew Business Models Pressure   more agileCloud Computin  Intelligent Devices Sociai TechnologiesMaturation Convergence Globai Focus Delivery Excellence Source: PwC analysis Interestingly,  its third generation, enterprise mobility has matured  become hardware independent and the focus has come  the front end user interfacing applications. This compares favourably  the focus  back end and middle-ware technologicai capabilities  earlier generations and   sync with the times. Application centricity  resulting  agility driving greater adoption  enterprise mobility solutions. Security, which   major issue impeding adoption, has come  the centre stage. There   plethora  solutions  provide peace  mind  the users, corporate and individuals alike. Significantly, the third generation  enterprise mobility solutions are successfully generating confidence with the leaders, resulting  quicker adoption.  this report,  delve  the myriad components, the challenges and the benefits  enterprise mobility. The report aims  engage and educate our readers  the significance  this movement, its ramifications for organisationai culture  weli  opportunities available   harnessed  its account. Gene ration 1st 2nd 3rd Technology Development Enterprise Demand Vendor Response FeaturesLandline phones arrive Introduction  digitai cellula rBetter security against eavesdropping and fraud better performance Subscriber-based  and authenticatio nMobile messaging capability emerges  cellular phones Better security and access  corporate messaging server-based PIM applications Introduced enterprise wireless -maii and calendaring 1o99 End--end data encryption Remote wipe EAS policy support Application-centric phones arrive 2oo7 Better security and access  corporate applications Upgraded security 2oo9- Security modei derived from the features  the second generation, but  ali major OSes 2o11- Generations  enterprise mobility Understanding the enterprise mobility ecosystem  ecosystem  defined  everything that exists   particular environment.  case  enterprise mobility  would consist  everything that  required  make  work. There are seven key components  the enterprise mobility ecosystem. These include: Users: The organisations, employees, vendors, partners and customers are the key stakeholders  any enterprise mobility solution. The following are the three key drivers for this component: Business need: Organisations need  provide access  enterprise systems  the internai and externai stakeholders  ensure enhanced responsiveness, higher availability, improved performance and overali satisfaction. Personai need: Individuai stakeholders need access  the enterprise systems both from the perspective  improved access and round the clock availability. Enterprise mobility   important tooi for enhancing individuai engagement and satisfaction within the enterprise. Experience: Experience   important factor that impacts the users  enterprise mobility solutions. Organisations have  create  seamless experience based  quality interfaces, low latencies and empowered access  data from within the enterprise. Security: The safety and confidentiality  data available within and through enterprise mobility solutions   paramount importance. Following are the three key drivers  this component: Authentication: How   ensure that the right person  accessing  systems and data therein?   question that most technology officers within companies struggle  answer. The who, what, where, when and how  ensuring fast, accurate and regular authentication  paramount for securing enterprise mobility solutions. Encryption: How   controi the accuracy, confidentiality and overali security   data during transmission?   important question that organisations are besieged with. Multiple technologies for encryption are being tested and deployed  ensure greater stability  securing enterprise mobility solutions. Security policy: How   ensure that  culture  security  imbued  ali  stakeholders? Organisations want employees, vendors, partners and customers  work with them for helping them realise  security oriented culture. The key  this  defining and publishing security policies and monitoring adherence  these. Institutionalisation  security policies governing device use, content, access rights and data privacy are helping organisations enhance sensitivity towards best practices  security for both internai and externai stake holders. Devices: Devices are  integrai part  enterprise mobility solutions. These include ali types  devices through which enterprise applications and systems are accessible  both internai and externai stakeholders. For instance, desktops, laptops, tablets and smartphones. The selection, procurement, certification, configuration, provisioning and management  devices criticai for the success  enterprise mobility architecture within  organisation. Severai enterprises are adopting  more flexible approach  devices through the bring your own device BYOD policies, wherein enterprises are comfortable with providing stakeholders access  enterprise systems through individually owned devices. Governance: Smart enterprises are establishing robust governance mechanisms encompassing strategy, best practices and policies for managing the enterprise mobility ecosystem.  clearly articulated strategy establishing the need, the vision and the tacticai road map for achieving goals for enterprise mobility  criticai  steer the organisation through unforeseen circumstances. Governance modei ensures that the boundary conditions for the solutions are weli articulated and respected.  also ensures that best practices are adopted, adapted and implemented  custom fit the enterprise. Most importantly, governance models mandate that policies are established  ensure that the organisations goals and expectations from such solutions are clearly scoped out and articulated. Engineering: For  robust and responsive enterprise mobility architecture,   criticai  engineer suitable technology platforms hardware for the hosting, access, support and disaster recovery  the back end. Organisations need  focus  establishing capabilities for hardware configuration, network management, hardware management and platform support and disaster recovery  create the enabling infrastructure for enterprise mobility solutions. Engineering enterprise mobility Source: CBDI Forum, PwCSecurity User Identity Employee Guest Customer Mobi  Applic ation Native Web Hybrid Application Profile Smart phone Tablet Specialized Device Capabilities Device Profile Connection Point VoIP Streaming Mobi  Computing Infrastructure Mobile Mobile Rendering Enterprise Enterprise EnterpriseMobi  Device Manage ment Content Manage ment Fault Manage ment Device Lifecycle Manage ment Configuration Manage ment Asset Manage ment Location Manage ment MEAP MDM Server System Manage mentApplication Store Enterprise Application Stor eMobi  Application Manage ment Application Provision License Management Application Development Application Deployment Enterprise Applications  ERP CRM  Etc Device Identity Mobile Security Manage ment Enterprise Security Manage mentUsers Actors Mobi  Applic ation Networ  Infrastructure Enterprise Infrastructure The key elements  enterprise mobility architecture include: Mobile device management MDM: MDM helps  device controi and focuses  management  the device   physicai asset and the application  some policy for its connectivity and function.  controlling and protecting the data and the configuration settings for ali mobile devices  the network, MDM can reduce support costs and business risks. Some MDM solutions are: AirWatch, BoxTone, Citrix, Fiberlink, Good Technology, MobileIron, SAP  Sybase, Zenprise Mobile application management MAM: MAM  managing the lifecycle  applications from the deployment  the updation and ultimately retirement, while keeping them --date and accessible. This provides application provisioning through  private app store, the management  updates  those applications, and any controls  recali  restrict access  applications from mobile devices. Some MAM solutions are: App47, AppCentrai, Apperian, Citrix, Verivo Software Network access controi NAC: NAC provides  set  rules for profiling endpoint devices  order  provide network access. NAC plays  significant role   mobile  orchestrating the policies for network rights across users various devices, whether personai  company owned, and provides access  the autonomous devices  future based  the static device characteristics, like MAC address. Some NAC solutions are: Barracuda, Cisco, Juniper Systems management solutions SMSs: SMSs exist  most  departments   way  manage company-owned systems, such  servers, desktops, and laptops. These tools provide visibility into the active systems and facilitate patching and updating  those systems. While the latter tasks have not expanded  the mobiles  large proportions, these systems may represent the golden standard  visibility for which  organisation should strive for its mobile devices. Some SMSs are: BMC, Citrix, Tivoli  IBM, Microsoft, Symantec  Altiris Applications: Applications are  the centre  the enterprise solutions. CIOs and business managers with organisations adopting enterprise mobility today are faced with decisions around designing, developing and managing applications   manner that they are available for enterprise platforms for today and tomorrow. For commerciai off the shelf applications, organisations have  consider the issues around license management  weli  the corporate and non-corporate applications for defining content, features and accessibility. For custom application development, organisations have  consider development tools and platforms  weli  performance requirements and quality controi  applications. Top applications for enterprise mobility The enterprise mobility ecosystemSource: CIO Association India CAI, PwC analysis Support: Another key component  the enterprise mobility ecosystem  the support services. Users  the solution require support for applications and hardware. Organisations, for company owned devices, provide repair and replacement support. For individually owned devices, most organisations provide application levei support. Source: PwC analysisApplication SupportReplacement Repair DevelopmentHardware SupportSupport Performance QACustom Apps ApplicationEnterprise Application Store Purchase  Apps Non corporate Apps Corporate Apps License Manage mentSecurity Authentication Security PolicyEncryption User Experience Personai NeedBusiness NeedDevice Provisioning SelectionManage ment ConfigurationBYOD CertificationDevice PurchaseProcurement Consumer Device Corporate LiableRuggedizedTelecommData Asset Manage mentPlatform Manage ment StrategyVoice PolicyBest Practices GovernanceNetwork Manage ment Disaster RecoveryPlatform SupportPlatform Configuration Engineering Enterprise Mobility Calendar Cont acts Instant Messaging Customer relationship Management Enterprise telephon  ERPEmaii Sales Force Automation Business Intelligence Document Management Human Resources Various components  the enterprise mobility ecosystem are coming together  interesting ways  give rise  certain distinct trends. These trends are  interest  the users, organisations, device manufacturers, service providers, regulators etc. Trends and their interplay  the coming days wili ensure exciting times for the adoption  enterprise mobility  the country. Trends Organisations  India are joining the BYOD movement BYOD   growing mobility trend which allows employees  bring their own devices for work and  access company information. BYOD makes  easier for employees  work outside the office and ensures the workers are adequately equipped   their role. The following are two key drivers for the growth  BYOD: Rising smartphone penetration: India ranks fifth among the top countries for smartphone users with  estimated  million subscribers  2o13, behind China, the , Japan and Brazii. Annuai growth  smartphone subscribers  India stands  , which  expected   the second fastest after Taiwan  , taking into account the top  smartphone markets  the world. With the increasing penetration  smart phones  the country, there has been  significant rise  the adoption  enterprise mobility. This upward growth trend  BYOD adoption  expected  become stronger  the coming years. Smartphone penetration Source: Informa, KPCB, PwC AnalysisSmartphones subscribers  millions 2o13 Smartphones subscribers   growth  age Levei  company  support for BYODGrowing data traffic: India' mobile data traffic  expected  grow four times faster than the fixed  traffic between 2o13 and 2o17.  2o12, non- accounted for   the  traffic  India.  2o17 the non- share wili grow  .   estimated that portable devices, such  smartphones and tablets wili contribute   the  traffic  2o17  from   2o12. With the launch  high mobile data speed services like  LTE, mobile data traffic  expected  grow further.  2o17,  users would   from   , and   from   .  users, however, wili  down from   .   estimated that India has the highest percentage   employees who use  mobile device for work. Apart from the , India has the highest number  connected devices per knowledge worker .   2o12, and .   2o13. Interestingly,   the Indian companies support ali employee-owned devices, second only  the . BYOD  here  stay. Experts opine that about   organisations  India wili adopt BYOD   strategy  2o17. Economics  also driving rapid BYOD adoption  the country. For organisations, the main reason for investing  BYOD policies and supporting infrastructure   save money. Smaller companies with smaller budgets see this   opportunity  lessen the equipment expenses, and reallocate their hardware budget  improve software and  systems. Its adoption also revolves around increasing productivity  providing flexibility.  enables remote working  teleworking,  ensuring that staff has the relevant equipment for their roles. The increasing adoption  BYOD  significant  terms  policies, processes, ownership and jurisdiction ramifications for organisations and individuals alike. Most importantly, organisations are trying  devise ways and means  meet the security challenges posed  BYOD. The following can  possible solutions  these challenges: Creating boundaries around open content Establishing  comprehensive access policy Securing devices   regular basis Undertaking regular audits  devices and data sets Establishing requisite hardware, software and application led security controls Source: PwC analysis Growth  the enterprise mobility applications  driving greater adoption and richer experience Enterprises are providing applications that enable seamless access  enterprise systems for employees, users and vendors  partners. Some  these are  the form  endorsed platforms, for instance, financiai institutions endorsing atom technologies atom mobile banking for enabling fund transfers. Such endorsed platforms reduce the effort and time required for design, development, installation, support and ongoing maintenance and provides for super specialization. Such platforms,  most cases, are more economicai for enterprises. These softwares  service platforms have grown  provide solutions for clients, often enabling and leading transformationai capabilities for clients  their specialization niches. Businesses are also taking  commerciai off the shelf applications for efficiencies and productivity enhancement  part  their enterprise mobility strategy. Take Dropbox, for instance, which   weli recognised name  cloud computing. This app helps users sync their files easily and seamlessly with any device with any operating system. This addresses the problem  making documents accessible  ali times with ease and across devices. Severai clients also prefer custom built enterprise mobility applications  uniquely support their employees and clients. For instance, the electronic payment capabilities that ali leading telecom operators have deployed  the country which provide employees, intermediaries and customers with the facility  make bili payments through any GPRS enabled device. These applications talk directly with the internai pre-paid and post-paid billing platforms. Similarly, leading travei portals have custom built applications for customers  book travei tickets through their mobile devices. Interestingly, severai mobile first enterprise applications have been launched. These apps are built exclusively for the mobile platform first and are later ported  non-mobility platforms. Indian companies have moved  from traditionai emailing and sociai networking for enterprise mobility and are today looking  applications and platforms like ERP, CRM, SCM, sales force automation, unified communication and billing. Enterprise mobility application universe Common smart handheld services Device- dependent applications Competitive applications Employee horizontai applications Mass-consumption applications HTML5 only: Content applications news, books, video. . . airline boarding passes, cloud storage HTML5 only: Common corporate applications such  ERR, CRM, MRP cloud-based office productivity tooi  HTML5: Mobile payments with device-based native SDKs authentication navigation, visuai analytics The big question facing many CIO  today  how  develop enterprise mobile apps for ali the key mobile platforms. Most CIOs are today trying  deploy  hybrid approach combining HTML  with one native deployment . . the main platform for which the application was initially conceptualised.  HTML    browser- based technology,   dependent  the web browsers and actually sniffs the type  phone accessing .  automatically renders the screen size and optimises the user experience for the end-user based  their handset type. Resultantly, there   need  build multiple versions coded  specific operating systems requirements and hence saves  massive amount  cost  app development for businesses. Source: PwC analysis Sales, marketing, customer service and  are the early adoptors  enterprise mobility solutions within organisations. The , supply chain management and field service departments are also keen  follow  similar pattern. Not surprisingly, the push for enterprise mobility solutions has come from teams that needed  respond faster  situations. Sales and marketing teams and customer service teams, which perform client  market facing roles are the first ones  benefit from the convenience and quick responsiveness available with enterprise mobility solutions  their hand helds. Organisations report that these teams report  higher degree  satisfaction, increased productivity and significantly better performance  meeting  ground targets.   another department that has made  push for investments  enterprise mobility solutions. This helps this criticai support function  effectively respond  complaint calls and  monitor systems and networks  reai time. Organisations report improved responsiveness and lower down times  account  enterprise mobility solutions deployed for the  teams. Departments making investments  enterprise mobility solutions Departments deploying enterprise mobility solutionsInterestingly, other departments have also seen the benefits  deploying enterprise mobility solutions and increasingly investing  applications that help universalise their back end systems. For instance, the human resources teams  severai organisations are using enterprise mobility solutions  the following areas: Employee leave management Interviewing assistance Learning assistance and tools Time sheet management Travei expense reporting and expense receipt capturing Manager portai Employee reai time look  These empower employees  complete  related work flows and requirements whenever and wherever any  their devices require them. These also help  accelerate the workflows through improved alerting and notification  weli   faster approvai processes. Finance  Manufacturing Payments approvai Reai spend monitoring Travei expense reporting and approvai Compliance management  change approvai  incident management User experience management System monitoring EHS safety issues Quality issues Operations incidence management Resource management Supply chain Sales  approvai Sanctioned vendor listing Transport status notification Price discovery Materiai availability Customer and contacts Order status monitoring Sales order notification CRM cycle: lead  order management           SalesM arketing Customer Service   ProcurementSCM OperationsFinanceOthers Source: PwC analysis Adoption  controls for enterprise mobilitySecurity has emerged  the most important concern for enterprise mobility solution deployers and providers alike What  the reai cost   lost smart phone enabled with enterprise mobility? Security  undeniably the biggest challenge and the largest opportunity  enterprise mobility today. According   recent PwC survey called State  Information Security- India, 2o14, Indian businesses are starting  move beyond perimeter fencing  mobile devices and internai systems accessed through these devices. Security for enterprise mobility solutions has widened  having  mobility strategy more than  organisations polled, deploying mobile device management software and strong authentication  devices. Interestingly, Indian companies are faring better than their globai peers  the adoption  controls for mobility. Enterprises  India are increasingly adopting biometric technologies  strengthen safety strategies. Today' smart phones are able  capture the voice, face and even hand geometry biometrics without resorting  add- scanners  other peripherals. They are being planned   used for security clearance  organisations,  they can capture enough physicai information  authorise personnei. Source: PwC analysis Organisations  India are more proactive  deploying security for customer facing mobile applications.  the same survey mentioned earlier, more than  respondents claimed that they have initiated secure mobile application development and established strong authentication  devices.  significant number also claimed having transport encryption for data security. Alarmingly,  organisations  India focus  security for enterprise mobility solutions, only  organisations currently have security policies governing the use  mobile devices and  even lesser percentage  have policies governing the use  consumer devices  the enterprise network. Following are key technologies for securing enterprise networks that wili find greater adoption  the coming years: Centralised user data store Behaviourai profiling and monitoring Encryption  smart phones Intrusion detection tools Vulnerability scanning tools Asset management tools Security information and event management technologies Security controls for customer facing applications  India           Isolation  memo   the mobile appDedicated intrusion and prevention technologiesMemory  securely cleared when app  closedPenetration testingEncryption  sensitive data  the mobile appA unique set   twork and firewali policiesBasic authenticationTransport encryptionStrong authenticationSecure mobile app development Source: PwC analysis Enterprise mobility  about collaboration and problem solving. Employees are already using devices for problem solving. Instead  waiting for answers employees are using the mobile devices  quickly and effectively reach out for advice  solve tricky problems. For instance,   automobile service station, line workers take photos  difficult repair jobs and share with -workers  find the right solution. Although, today, enterprises are  dire need  help with the information overload, they  soon  able  use the collaboration paradox  their advantage. mHealth Ecosystem Monitoring Healthcare Surveillance Healthcare AdministrationHealthcare Practitioner Support Solutions across Patient Pathway Healthcare Systems StrengtheningPreven tionDiagnosisWellness Treatment Emergency ResponseMobile Service  erators Content Providers Device Manufacturers Healthcare Service ProvidersPlayers Solution  Individuals Government Healthcare Providers Banks are extending their collaboration with the customers through mWallet. Customers are able  make payments, order cheque books, retrieve account information, create fixed deposits and invest  instruments through applications  their phones. Similarly, retailers are collaborating with their customers through mCommerce and schools with their students through mEducation. Interestingly, mHealth  extending enterprise mobility into the realm  the physician and patient relationship. Physicians are today accessing patient records and answering queries with data backed insights from records  the . Patients are getting reminders regarding medication and vaccination from physicians which   turn ensuring improved outcomes  the treatment regimen. Devices are emerging   key platform for sociai technologies.  these could  suitably channelled through appropriate enterprise applications, organisations wili  able  reap immense benefits. The following features may prove    considerable value Integration with business criticai applications Curation and content organisation  management functionality  support governance and compliance Sociai analysis Farmers  the country now use their phones  digitally monitor the operation  irrigation pumps. Many  them regularly access everything from crop prices  weather forecast  their phones.  the developing world, mobile-services providers are becoming the  facto colleges, delivering education through the phone. Source: PwC analysis Severai challenges confront organisations wanting  espouse comprehensive enterprise mobility. Computing the ROI  the mobility strategy: Calculating ROI from enterprise mobility solutions  challenging. The impact  mobility solutions  far-reaching and too many variables influence  multitude  outcomes for the organisation. One view   analyse the performance  the organisation  financiai and operationai parameters before and after the roli-out  enterprise-wide mobility strategy. Another view   ascribe direct benefits  enterprise mobility strategy  calculate ROI. Nevertheless, there   single accurate methodology  measure impact and thus the ROI for enterprise mobility enablement. Integration  mobility into overali business and  strategy:  enterprise-wide mobility strategy has far-reaching people, process and technology ramifications for the organisation. This implies that  mobility strategy needs   aligned with the  and business strategy  the company. The key challenge   embedding mobility   component  technology, people and process work streams  the organisation  business strategy. Skili sets for managing  mobile workforce: Severai organisations are challenged with skili sets, especially within the  department. These skills are required  manage the slew  hardware, software, applications and devices that  enterprise mobility solution encompasses. Most importantly, these skills needed  cater  varied devices, mobile operating systems, and application environments are  short supply and difficult for non- firms  attract and retain especially  India. Platform and device standardisation: Enterprises are pressed with the dilemma  choosing  single  few mobile platforms  order  enable enterprise mobility architecture versus supporting enterprise mobility  ali device types. Tied  this  the question  the ownership  devices. Organisations prefer  provide access  company-owned devices but realise that this  often expensive and works contrary  the bring your own device BYOD spirit. Asset management: Key assets used  enterprise mobility need   traceable, manageable and governed from induction  retirement. Enterprises need  embed mobility asset management into their asset lifecycle management processes. This  significant  terms  the threat they can pose  not attended, accounted and safeguarded. Jurisdiction and ownership: What should  the policies and penalties  case  breach for data storage, download and upload for personai devices aligned  enterprise mobility? Who owns the data residing  personai devices--the enterprise  the individuai? What are the company  rights over devices and data not its own? Questions such  these need   settled through debate and discussion  order  ensure more widespread adoption  enterprise mobility solutions. There are other specific areas that challenge enterprise mobility adoption. For instance,  the medicai profession, who can access and see  patient  medicai history and profile from their handhelds has spawned  debate encompassing issues around data transmission and storage, data privacy, etc. Enterprise mobility challenges Policies: Organisations complain that there are  best practices  precedents contextualised  India that govern the enterprise mobility landscape. Enterprises overlook the fact that each enterprise wili have  work  establish its own boundary conditions for enterprise mobility. Each organisation wili have  create its own reference modei  policies, capabilities, roles and responsibilities and maturity modei streams and phases. Experiences the  team enthused   era  rampant attrition and mounting work pressure. Yet,  was adamant  not denying this freedom  mobility and having dissatisfied-users. The company aimed  freeing  team resources from managing non-strategic assets and instead having them focus  high business value initiatives. The company identified the kind  devices users were adopting, for example PCs, smartphones, tablets, etc.  started  identify the platforms users were adopting, for example iOS, Android, Windows, etc.  prioritised criticai applications that require support such  emaii, conferencing, etc. The company   solution came  with  BYOD policy.  gave users the mobility they were asking for. But the support for different devices brought about standardisation  weli   security challenge for the company. The company therefore adopted virtuai desktop infrastructure VDI. This created two partitions--personai and enterprise-- the BYOD devices.  alienated personai data from enterprise data, thereby quenching enterprise data security apprehensions. The VDI adoption, though expensive, had good ROI and management buy-   substituted the need for company- owned devices whose refresh cycle was due and involved large capex.  free   resources, the company outsourced the support process   partner with the necessary capability and expertise. The company soon started  reap benefits from its BYOD policy. Its employees experienced more job satisfaction. Their productivity shot   more than . The security  enterprise data was ensured. And the company made huge savings  account  reduced refresh cycle capitai expenditure. Enterprise mobility  the farm  large Indian company  known for its healthcare products. Chemicai ,  key component  its product offering,  derived from marigold flowers. The company  fortunes depend  the tiny petals  the flower. The company wanted  have  controlled end--end process from farming and harvesting the flower  making the finai product.  has partnered with farmers  produce and with agents  report the production. The flower needs  weli monitored cultivation and harvesting cycle. The company experienced that the farmers were increasingly missing the harvesting cycle and the agents, the inspection cycle. The agents were using excei sheets  enter inspection results. The entire data-feeding process had  significant turnaround time and wasn  reai-time. Also, the sheets were not helping the company  horticulture scientists  provide suggestions and guidance  the produce. The produce was erratic and wasn  meeting delivery requirements. The company decided  introduce  farm management system FMS application. The application was hosted online  order  provide easy access  its partners--the agents. The system would automatically send SMS reminders  the agents  avoid inspection delays. Virtuai desktop infrastructure VDI creating  win-ali paradigm  large multinationai company has  weli diversified portfolio which spans severai economic sectors.  has  employee base  more than , ooo  over  countries worldwide. The company has been  consistent investor  latest technology  order  drive forward and backward integration  its business and  leveraging synergies between its businesses.  focusses  -house research and innovation  remain  low-cost manufacturer with high quality products and innovative customer offerings. With the ever evolving industry environment, the company started  experience  new wave  employee expectations--  more flexible working environment, the option  use their home   bring their own , use  smartphones and tablets, access  sociai networking and cloud apps. They wanted  work, the way they wanted  work. This led  more and more personai devices entering the enterprise ecosystem. Every such device was identified   potentially hostile.   any organisation, the security  the enterprise data was criticai  functioning. This mobility freedom was starting  incur more monitoring effort from the  team. The company was facing  challenge  keeping  online access  the system from the field wasn  flexible, data retrievai time from agents was stili below acceptable levels. The online access was leading  agents entering data into the system without doing physicai inspection. The challenge was  prevent them from this malpractice, yet provide them with  easy interface  feed data. The company provided smartphones  farmers and agents. These phones enabled farmers and agents  feed reai-time data into the application. Geo-tagging prevented agents from entering data when they were absent from the farms. Farmers provided pictures  the produce using the smartphone and received suggestions  weli  weather forecasts from the scientists. The company soon started  realise the benefits these efforts and investments. Reai-time data was reaching the company system. Information flow was transparent and speedy. Scientists were able  better advise  cultivation practices. Chemicai  produce increased drastically. Raw materiai costs   result reduced and the company was able  deliver  better quality product. Placing power with patients  major and renowned government hospitai  considered    benchmark for establishing healthcare standards  the industry for years. With  large base  doctors, the management decided  dynamically allocate time-slots  its -house doctors. These dynamic time-slots created  challenge for its customers-- know the time-slot when their concerned doctor  available. The healthcare industry increasingly faces  challenge  appointment desk staff timing. Customers have  book their appointment during  particular time  the day. Also, with the huge influx  clients and limited appointment slots, there has been  scarcity  available appointments. This has been further escalated with appointment staff offering preference  clients. Therefore, the management was concerned that its customers were increasingly finding  difficult  book appointments. The healthcare industry  increasingly facing the challenge  improve its offerings. Its customers are increasingly looking for mobile options for completing non-criticai tasks such  the physicai collection  reports, etc. The hospitai wanted  provide flexibility  its customers  weli  bring about  more transparent appointment system. The hospitai introduced  new online hospitai service system. Customers could search for the doctor they wanted  book, check for his  her time-slot, check his  her availability and get  confirmed appointment. The system also allowed customers  download their reports,  access them online   later time. The hospitai realised that customers were finding  more convenient  book  appointment online without the requirement  intervention   third person. The system also allowed the reduction  hospitai staff thus leading  reduced operating expenditure. Education for ali Economic, sociai and technologicai forces continue  change our increasingly interconnected world. The adoption  new technologies, the rapid obsolescence  knowledge, the need for just--time learning and the search for cost-effective ways  meet the learning needs   globai workforce have redefined the processes that underlie the design, development and delivery  training and education. Estimates suggest that  much     person training costs actually   meet travei and lodging expenditures.  response, mUniversity  enabling end  end education delivery and providing  unique marketplace for learners, educators, enterprises and governments. mUniversity provides solution for various stakeholder challenges  the education ecosystem. mUniversity: Solutions for ali stakeholders Enterprises Totai solution  manage Learning and Development Address challenges around growing cost, trainers, scale, relevance and effectiveness  Capex better ROI Adds courses and lets employees pay  they use Delivers interactive training  employees, partners and customers Freedom from Black Box  LMS Government Eradicates the birth penalty Better affordable education for ali Equai opportunity for every one Scalable vocationai training infrastructure Build  strong knowledge society Improve employability Reduce the digitai divide Educators Buy, seli and deliver courses online  capex, better ROI Enroli candidates for online  campus programs Class  web, end  end solutions for education delivery management. Use the same mUniversity platform for oncampus LMS needs Learners Access top educators courses Affordable education, anytime-anywhere for Students Professionals One place for applying for -campus online programs Your budget and your program Earn Certificates and Diplomas Add wings  your career, stay --date  your field Industry relevent courses India has over 33oo business schools and severai amongst these are stand alone business schools, which are  longer viable and sustainable from  business modei perspective. Consequently  increasing number  business schools are closing. Poor quality  product, over supply, poor industry and academia linkage, poor quality  teaching faculty, narrow vision  management are some  the reasons for this collapse. Business schools are struggling  attract and retain good academicians because  non availability  good quality faculty pooi, high cost  fuli time faculty and faculties unwillingness  move  disadvantaged locations. Alongwith this, the cost  education delivery  growing. This  passed   students making  unaffordable for many. Given this scenario, the mUniversity platform was launched  Aegis Schooi  Business and Telecom. Advantages  Aegis Business Schooi  mUniversity Modei- Better faculty from around the world Totai solution  manage Learning and Development Addressed challenges: Growing cost, trainers, Scale, Relevance and Effectiveness  Capex better ROI Buy, seli and deliver courses online here Delivering courses  candidates worldwide Enhanced revenue mUniversityContent Authoring LMS PlatformDevice SamsungBandwidth Tikona RComFaculty and StudentmUniversity ecosystem The road ahead  ensure that enterprise mobility   success  India, the following are pre-requisites. Making people mobility ready Organisations wili need  evolve  entire support ecosystem around enterprise mobility. This necessarily includes resources  the technology department adept  the design, development, deployment and maintenance  devices and applications. With the proliferation  devices, the mobility support team wili need talent adept  multiple technology platforms,  case organisations choose  support multiple device types. Educating internai users  also criticai  the success  any enterprise mobility programme. Adherence  the first principles  design and development and exhaustive user acceptance testing wili ensure that   extent the intended user community  comfortable with these applications. Training wili stili play  important role, more   the case  commerciai off-the-shelf applications made available  internai users. The partner ecosystem wili also need   trained  effectively using applications made available  them. This wili often involve getting the troops  the trenches   trained  use what may  considered relatively sophisticated applications. For instance,  leading telecom provider has made available  asset barcode scanning application  its physicai verification partner for count-taking  active elements  various tower sites  the country. The application  made available  handphones  field staff. The staff has been trained  use the application meaningfully  order  enable two-way communication  the veracity  data  assets  the ground. Enterprise mobility wili also require  change  the mind-set  the top.   CIO, mobility  this stage can  frustrating.  may seem  contradiction  lower costs and improve security and controls while simultaneously encouraging the innovation mobility can provide. Patience and  balanced controi approach wili  the main attributes  the  leader  mobility. Timing may differ, but eventually mobility wili play  significant part  any enterprise information services both internally  the organisation and externally  customers. Some people see the opportunity  create  speciality position, that  chief information mobility officer. New governance modei for greater acceptability Enterprise mobility has roots  the personai domain. Organisations need   cognisant  the fact that unlike other domains  professionai life, the extent  which they can influence and impact the relationship between the user and his  her device wili always  limited. Organisations have  understand that enterprise mobility calls for  culturai shift  organisation-wide governance. Mobility governance   tricky business. Excessive controls can stifle creativity and the free spirit that are the underpinning hallmarks  the enterprise mobility movement.  the other hand, being overtly relaxed could result  mayhem and far-reaching undesirable consequences for organisations. Organisations need  strike  balance with policies and processes that nudge and guide users  desirable behaviours without being overtly restrictive. Mobility also encompasses the spheres  the customer and the partners. These stakeholders might  even less receptive  any controls which are  dissonance with their expectation  enterprise mobility. Hence, any governance modei wili have   nuanced enough for greater acceptability from ali constituents  the ecosystem. For instance, today   difficult  impose  traditionai approach  enterprise mobility users. Users consider the device their property and not  corporate asset unless   specifically provided for  the organisation. Hence,  centralised approach  security wherein one solution fits ali might not work with users  case  enterprise mobility. Enterprise mobility has   the business  business The iPhone changed  ali. For the first time, employees the world over had  gadget that provided use  ease and experience never seen before. Organisations were forced  port and make available applications that employees could access  the   their iPhones. For the very first time, the choice  technology and its consequent ramifications was not steered through the offices  the chief information officer  the chief technology officer but  the employees  the field and the office  factory floor.  start, many business leaders stili need  come  terms with the fact that their employees are also consumers.   result  that disconnect, many  not most employees today are ahead  their employers when  comes  using mobile devices. Gone are the days when workers passively accepted whatever  handed them. For the last few years,  has been struggling  figure out how  let employees use their own phones for work  weli  play without compromising the security  integrity  established business processes. When employees with smartphones can download apps that help them  their jobs better than the tools provided  ,   ali the more important  ensure that mobile strategy gets executed with employees  mind. Enterprise mobility continues    individuai user led phenomenon. The organisation  but  enabler, reacting  the opportunity  gaining greater productivity from and engagement with key stakeholders   hyper competitive marketplace. However, the differentiator here wili rest  how the organisation chooses  react  the evolving mobility landscape.   imperative that this  led from the top. The senior leadership  the organisation has  ensure that enterprise mobility  embedded  their stakeholder strategy. Ali three, people, processes and technologies, wili need   considered when incorporating mobility into organisation strategy. The dynamics  the ecosystem wili inform and shape strategy and tactics for mobility. Managing legacy systems  support enterprise mobility   unlikely that organisations wili  able  rip apart age-old systems and enabling processes  adopt mobility   single stroke. Enterprises wili need  establish  graduai roli-out plan involving the following: Organisations upgrade legacy systems  create intermediate systems  order  enable mobility. Organisations change  remove legacy systems that impede mobility and establish new systems. Organisations create  alltogether new infrastructure dedicated  mobility and talking with the pre-existing systems. The choice  one   combination  the above wili depend  ROI that the organisations feei wili  achieved from the mobility platform. Most organisations are today working  port parts  ERP and CRM systems  their mobility platforms. Soon tablets and smartphones wili  used  access entire ERP and CRM systems and  host  other systems hitherto inaccessible through this platform. Seamless experience between mobility and reality Mobility solutions are being enabled for customers. Organisations are challenged with ensuring that customer experiences with the service  product and the brand are seamless across ali channels including the mobility channei. This implies that the brand DNA needs   adhered  for mobility solutions just the way organisations have transposed the brand experience onto web interfaces. For instance,  leading clothing manufacturer allows customers  buy, change, return, tailor clothes through their mobility application  their brick-and-mortar stores across the country    enable  seamless and controlled experience. Similarly, the organisation cannot have two distinct rule-sets for mobility and non-mobility usage for employees. Organisations wili need  extend enterprise platforms into their mobility solutions and vice versa,  required. About Aegis Schooi  Business and Telecommunication Aegis Schooi  Business and Telecommunication  run  Aegis Knowledge Trust.   among the top schools offering Telecom Technology Management Program. Aegis was started  2oo2 with Bharti Airtei  support  develop future telecom leaders with cross functionai skills. Aegis Graham Beli Awards   initiative  Aegis for developing culture and eco system for innovation. Aegis offers following programs  Fuli Time, Part Time Executive, Online and Graduate Certificate modei: Masters Program PGP  Telecom Management Post Graduation Program PGP  Business Administration; Business Consulting; Business Analytics Big Data; Cloud Computing and Enterprise Mobility Executive short term courses  Telecom, Management and  Aegis  pioneer  research and development  the field  Mobile Online education.   the first schooi  offer the mMBA  Tablet  2o11.  has incubated the Mobile University mUniversity platform which   end  end digitai platform for education delivery for learners, enterprises, education providers and Government. mUniversity  mission   eradicate birth penalty  making quality education affordable and accessible  ali. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Sivarama Krishnan Executive Director PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Emaii: sivarama. krishnan . pwc. com pwc.  Data Classification: DCo: For Generai use only This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  1o1 - October 2o13 AegisReport. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India