Title: pwc_harvesting-the-sun-to-address-southern-region-power
Date Published: 2013-12-13 15:05:14+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_harvesting-the-sun-to-address-southern-region-power.pdf
Word Count: 8585
Sentence Count: 571
Average Sentence Length: 22.87

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
solar: 305
power: 146
energy: 135
projects: 102
generation: 97
policy: 70
capacity: 70
state: 69
wili: 61
states: 57
per: 57
renewable: 55
india: 54
weli: 47
cost: 46
grid: 43
government: 43
project: 43
system: 38
rooftop: 37

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Harvesting the sun  address southern region power woes CII - Conference  solar power www. pwc.   December 2o13 Overview  Policy and regulatory framework for solar power  Transmission and evacuation infrastructure plans p12 Financing  solar projects p14 Globai outlook p18 The need for  competitive ecosystem  India p21 Securing and diversifying the energy mix  distributed generation p25 Enabling frameworks would ensure sustained push for the solar sector p27 CII - Conference  solar power  Overview India, which has been traditionally dominated  conventionai energy sources, has the fifth largest power generation capacity  the world.   September 2o13, the country  generation capacity stood  228 , out  which the southern states contribute close  . Installed generation capacity       FYo9 FY1o FY11 FY12 FY13 growthCapacity  Years Thermai Nuclear Hydro Renewable energy growth  NEWNE region growth  southern region Source: Centrai Electricai Authority CEA The southern region  India comprising  Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamii Nadu, has seen  increasing power deficit situation over  period  time. The power deficit  the southern region peaked  . , unlike the improving deficit scenario  the northern, eastern, western and north-eastern NEWNE region  India where the deficit  . . Barriers such  fuei shortage, lack  sufficient capacity addition and delay  integrating the southern with the NEWNE grid, have been the key reasons for the widening power deficit within the region. Energy deficit        FYo9 FY1o FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 tili September 2o13Deficit Years Andhra Pradesh Karnataka Kerala Tamii Nadu NEWNE Source: CEA  PwCHigh deficit situation  the southern region has led  some  the states resorting  scheduled and unscheduled load shedding  weli  adopting restriction and controi   measures. Load shedding ranges from  few hours within the capitai cities  the region  more than eight hours  Tier-  cities, and even more  the rurai areas  summer season. Moreover, demand from industriai  weli  commerciai consumers  the region  controlled  way  setting   cap  allowable energy, while demand  the states  Tamii Nadu and Andhra Pradesh  controlled through   measures. Stringent penalties are imposed  consumers not complying with   guidelines. Power shortages have crippled regular operations  industries and commerciai consumers. Businesses are forced  either cut down production  use captive power generation  buy power from the exchange due  the power cuts. With the use  alternate options, the cost  power generation through diesei  heavy furnace oii  around three  four times more expensive than grid power. This   addition  the capitai cost incurred while purchasing the generation equipment and inverters. Industriai consumers today consider that having  place  power backup   necessity, and are ready  incur the capitai and operating costs    ensure reliability, despite its effect  the profitability  the companies. Smali size businesses which cannot afford high cost arrangements like power generation through diesei, procure from power exchange, has  rely  grid connected power and are forced  cut down their production due  load shedding. Need for energy supply diversity Currently, obstacles such  widening deficit, increasing cost  weli  unavailability  conventionai fuels, long gestation period for setting   conventionai power plants, impact  the economy due  the import  fossii fuels   challenge  the energy security scenario  the nation. This situation  paving the way for the country  consider alternative sources  energy which are quick  instali, environmentai friendly, locally available and need not  imported. The southern region  endowed with significant renewable energy generation potentiai which  estimated   over 51GW excluding solar. Tili March 2o12, around .   has been installed, which   commendable   the country  totai installed renewable energy generation capacity. The southern states have varying levels  renewable energy penetration. Tamii Nadu, one  the forerunners  harnessing renewable energy, has installed  capacity  .  , which  the highest  the country, and accounts for approximately   the totai installed capacity  India. Installed renewable capacity    August 2o13 Andhra PradeshKarnatakaKeralaTamii Nadu CapacityStates Source: Ministry New and Renewable Energy MNRE Wind energy has been the biggest contributor  the share  renewable energy  southern region. Tamii Nadu has again been the forerunner  harnessing wind energy, while other states  the region are catching . CII - Conference  solar power  Market for solar power: Unique  south India India has  vast potentiai for solar power generation, since around   the totai land area receives  annuai average globai irradiation  above  kWh  day. The totai installed capacity  grid-interactive solar energy   October 2o13 was 2o79.  . This forms over   the totai installed capacity  renewable energy. The 12th Five Year plan  strategy for the period 2o13-, aims  develop  ambitious , ooo   solar energy. Installed capacity  grid-interactive solar power     October 2o13       Jawaharlai Nehru Nationai Solar Mission State policy Rooftop  smali solar projects  Generation Based Incentive Scheme Renewable Energy Certificate Scheme Other phot voltaic projects Solar thermai Source: MNRE  PwC Solar irradiation and grid interactive solar capacity    October 2o13 Tamii Nadu Commissioned: 21MWAndhra Pradesh Commissioned:   Karnataka Commissioned: 24MWSolar irradiation and grid interactive solar capacity    October 2o13Currently, the top three states  the country with installed solar generation capacity include, Gujarat, with  installed capacity  over 852 , Rajasthan with 6o8 , and Madhya Pradesh with 22o . Apart from good radiation, successfui adoption  solar power  these states can  attributed  encouraging policies  weli  supportive regulations rolled-out  the respective state governments. Other states such  Uttar Pradesh, Punjab are also following suit, and are introduding various policies  weli  competitive tariffs  order  attract private investments  solar power generation projects. Southern states such  Andhra Pradesh, Tamii Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have reported  decent average solar irradiation  .   .  kwh  day, with around 3oo clear sunny days   year. Despite being  resource rich region, the combined totai installed grid connected solar capacity  the southern states constituites  mere .   the country  installed solar power capacity. Even  only .   the wasteland  used  the region, the realisable potentiai  above , ooo . The southern region can increase its solar capacity installation considerably, installing  excess  its current announced targets. Source: Solargis, MNRE With developments such  reduction  the cost  generation from solar power projects over the last five years, backed  policies such  the Jawaharlai Nehru Nationai Solar Mission JNNSM, mandatory solar purchase obligation SPO  weli  proactive state-specific solar policies supporting development  roof top, decentralised and large utility scale projects, the region  poised  spearhead  massive deployment  solar power projects and thereby drive investments within the sector. CII - Conference  solar power 7Policy and regulatory framework for solar power Power generation from renewable sources  constantly  the rise  India, with the share  renewable energy  the country  totai energy mix rising from .   FYo8  .   FY13. Wind power has led the renewable energy capacity addition within the country, registering  growth    the last decade, and its installed capacity reaching .    October 2o13. This growth can  attributed   conducive policy and regulatory framework  the form  preferentiai tariffs, renewable purchase obligations RPO, renewable energy certificate REC mechanism  weli  fiscai benefits such  accelerated depreciation and generation based incentives GBI  wind power developers. The states  Tamii Nadu and Karnataka are among the leading states  India  wind power with  totai installed capacity  .   and .   respectively. Similar success,  replicated  the solar space, may address the energy shortage problem  these states. Currently, growth  solar can  associated with various promotionai policies both  the nationai  weli  the state levei. JNNSM has been driving solar installations within the country since its launch  2oo9.  aims  achieve  grid-cost parity for solar energy and instali    grid connected solar power  2o22. The southern region has been proactive  terms  policy formulation. Karnataka was the first among the southern states  formulate  comprehensive solar policy. Other states such  Tamii Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have announced their respective solar policies  recent times. Tamii Nadu With  vision  developing Tamii Nadu  the world leader  solar energy, the government  Tamii Nadu along with the state nodai agency Tamii Nadu Energy Development Agency TEDA drew  the Tamii Nadu Solar Energy Policy  2o12. The policy envisages  solar capacity addition  , ooo  through utility scale, solar roof top projects and the REC mechanism  2o15. Key policy aspects Solar purchase obligation The state has obligated various consumer categories     and   category  order  meet the solar purchase obligation   tili December 2o13 and  from January 2o14 onwards. Being  first  its kind, where the obligation rests directly  the consumers, this SPO  expected  drive solar power investments within the state. The FY13 energy consumption  obligated consumers within the state  , 381 MUs. The obligation wili translate   solar capacity requirement  426    SPO and 852    SPO. Key supporting incentives The incentives offered  the state government for the development  the solar energy sector under the solar energy policy include the following: The GBI scheme for capacity addition     targeted for domestic solar rooftop installations.  incentive   INR per unit for the first two years,  INR per unit for the next two years, .  INR per unit for the next two years for ali solar  weli  hybrid plants installed before  March 2o14 wili  provided. Net-metering  allowed  promote rooftop penetration Exemption from the payment  electricity tax   extent  1oo  electricity generated from solar power projects, used for self-consumption  sale  utility wili  permitted for five years. Exemption from demand cut  the extent  1oo  the installed capacity assigned for captive use purpose wili  permitted. Guaranteed single-window clearance   days  PwCThe charges for open access transactions, that , for energy supply through  third-party   captive, are   finalised  the state. Investments within the sector are likely  gain momentum once the applicable open access charges are announced  the regulator. States progress:  1ooo  competitive bid process  December 2o12, the Tamii Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Ltd TANGEDCO announced  , ooo  tender for solar projects within the state. Towards this, letter  intents  the tune  499  were issued, and the capacity tied   expected     Letter  intent LoIs were signed with bidders  implement bid capacity  higher. TANGEDCO determined  tariff  .  INR per kWh, with  escalation for acceptable bids, which  considered feasible  many independent power producers IPPs  weli  developers claiming accelerated depreciation benefits. Key points Capacity offered: , ooo  Letter  intent issued: 499  PPA: Twenty years with the TANGEDCOTariff: .  INR per kWh, with  escalation for the first  years Status: PPA yet   signed While letter  intent LoIs has been allocated, the PPAs are yet   signed. The expedition  signing  PPA wili help achieve financiai closure and support the business decisions  developers who have timed the project for both normai  weli  accelerated depreciation benefits. Rooftop solar For rooftop solar systems   ,  capitai subsidy      provided  the government  India and   the state government. The state government  Tamii Nadu has announced this additionai subsidy for solar rooftop projects  the month  October 2o13. With this announcement,  investor now needs  bring  only the remaining . This subsidy wili  given   first come, first serve basis  the first , ooo customer.  wili  given only  grid-connected, without battery systems, and only for domestic consumers - category. Solar power generated    consumed within the building. Net metering guidelines Tamii Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission TNERC has recently announced its guidelines for net metering implementation within Tamii Nadu. According  these guidelines, two separate meters wili  installed for metering purpose. While one meter wili  for measuring solar power generation, the other meter wili  for export  import measurement. However, solar generation meter  optionai for consumers not availing the GBI.  annuai cap has been set for the amount  energy residentiai photo voltaic  system owners can supply  the locai grid under the net metering scheme. The electricity generated   residentiai  system wili  capped commercially    the electricity consumption  the eligible consumer  the end   settlement period, and the excess energy generated beyond the  cap wili  treated  lapsed. Furthermore,  the locai distribution levei, connectivity  rooftop  systems wili  restricted    the distribution transformer capacity   first come, first served basis. The settlement period   months between August and July each year.  the settlement period ends immediately after the summer season, any excess generation accumulated during the summer season might get lapsed. CII - Conference  solar power 9Solar tariff and open access regulation Recently, the TNREC has released  draft consultative paper  solar tariff for solar , Solar thermai and kilowatt  scale systems.  solar  tariff  .  INR per kWh with  escalation was proposed. The tariffs proposed for solar thermai and  scale systems are .  INR per kWh and .  INR per kWh respectively.     seen  the tariff wili  revised considering the dynamics  capitai, financing  weli  operationai costs, and other factors such  the capacity utilisation factor, the area required, technology domestic  weli  globai, keeping  view that among the consumers, both IPPs  weli  investors are keen  implement solar power projects within the state. Andhra Pradesh The state has drawn out  solar policy with  aim  encourage investments  grid and off-grid solar power projects. The policy has given greater emphasis  development  projects under the third-party, captive  REC route. Key supporting incentives The state government has provided  host  incentives  solar power generators within the state  order  encourage solar power generations. These incentives include the following: Wheeling and transmission charges are not applicable for the sale  power within the state. Cross-subsidy surcharge  not applicable for intra-state open access sale and captive use. Hundred per cent banking facility wili  permitted for  months. Towards this, banked energy cannot  redeemed between the months  February and June. Ali solar power projects wili  exempted from paying electricity duty for captive consumption and third party sale. Value added tax VAT for ali the inputs required for solar power projects wili  refunded. The Industries Department wili provide incentive  terms  refund  stamp duty  weli  registration charges for the land purchased for setting   solar power project.  per the policy, incentives proposed are valid for  period  seven years from the date  implementation. Such communication regarding the certainty   policy   aspect investors give huge importance, and   driving factor for mobilising investments within the sector. States progress:  1ooo  competitive bid process Andhra Pradesh announced bids  the tune  , 16o   solar  projects which was oversubscribed  57o , thereby totaling   , 73o . Project sizes were  five and   each. The highest bid was .  INR per kWh and the lowest bid was .  INR per kWh. The locations, for which bids have been submitted, have been allocated  totai capacity  92o  only  Andhra Pradesh Transmission Company APTRANSCO. Among the 121 locations bid for, there   possibility that the capacities bid for  these locations may not actually lead  complete fili   capacity for each location.  far, under the solar policy, the state has received offers for only 418 , thereby leaving  large gap  its planned target. Key points Capacity offered: , ooo  Letter  intent issued: 144  PPA: Twenty years, with the DISCOM Tariff: .  INR per kWh Status: PPA yet   signed Decentralised solar power The state has  totai capacity    sanctioned under the off-grid standalone solar plants, and the installed capacity   September 2o1o  only 139 . The New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation  Andhra Pradesh NEDCAP has been working closely with  number  organisations  order  improve the awareness about decentralised solar power systems among industriai  weli  domestic consumers. The state government intends  provide solar pump sets  agriculturists   huge subsidy basis, and this benefit wili  extended only  those villages which  not have  conventionai grid. Under the Solar Photovoltaic Lanterns programme, around , ooo solar lanterns wili  distributed during the financiai year 2o13-. The state government wili subsidise each lantern  the extent  5oo INR  ali categories  beneficiaries. Solar water heating  weli  lighting systems are also gaining popularity among industriai consumers. Recently, the Warangai Municipai Corporation has installed    rooftop solar  power system  order  run the office lighting system.  PwC Net metering guidelines The state government has announced  policy for encouraging net metering within the state. This facility  only provided  three phase consumers. Compensation for surplus energy pumped into the system   pooled cost  decided  the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission APERC from time--time, and settled   half-yearly basis. Such  payment  made for the period  seven years, starting from the date  setting   the project. The state has decided  provide  subsidy for systems      addition  the  Ministry  New and Renewable Energy MNRE subsidy.  detailed set  technicai guidelines related  the installation and safety procedures have also issued. Karnataka Karnataka has come  with  Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy 2oo9-  2oo9, wherein  target  126   solar power was envisaged   2o13- . This included the power that the state was likely  receive under the JNSSM. After the enactment  the Karnataka  policy, Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission KERC issued the renewable purchase obligation RPO regulations  order  encourage the initiation  solar projects within the state. The state government thereafter decided  implement  dedicated solar policy, and has subsequently formulated the Karnataka Solar Policy 2o11- for the development  solar projects. The Karnataka Renewable Energy Development Limited KREDL  the state nodai agency  responsible for implementing this policy. Key aspects  the policy include the following: Proposai  instali 2oo   solar-based projects  2o15-, for procurement  Electricity Supply Companies ESCOMs, added   annuai capacity    The minimum capacity shali    and maximum   for solar -based projects. For solar thermai projects, the minimum capacity shali    The capacities wili  allotted through  competitive bid process, under the reverse bidding route, with  maximum tariff based  the KERC tariff order    July 2o1o Captive power plants and the sale  power  third parties are not  part  the 2oo  capacity. Wheeling  weli  open access charges wili  applicable  determined  the KERC  Centrai Electricity Regulatory Commission CERC.  additionai    reserved for centrai  state-owned undertakings for setting- solar projects  the state for the purpose  bundling with thermai power from outside the state,  government approved rates. Solar energy generators can seli electricity  the ESCOMs   pooled cost  power purchase  determined  the KERC  CERC, and sells the RECs  obligated entities. States progress:  2oo  competitive bid process  the last two years. The state auctioned    solar energy  2o11 and  further 13o   2o13  meet  RPO. Phase  capacity included    solar thermai project. Except for    solar  project that has been commissioned, other project are currently under construction. The state has extended the deadline for completion  project under phase   March 2o14. Key points Capacity offered: 2oo  PPA: Twenty-five years with respective ESCOMs Tariff: Phase : .   .  INR per kWh Phase : .  to8.  INR per kWh Status: Ten  commissioned under Phase , and PPA   signed for 13o   Phase  Feed--tariffs for solar plants Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission has recently introduced tariffs for grid connected projects. Type  solar plant Tariff INR per kWh Solar  plants .  Rooftop and smali solar plants .  Rooftop and smali solar plants with  capitai subsidy7.  Source: KERC solar tariff order 2o13 However, results  both the phases  the bid process indicate that the KERC  benchmark  weli  average tariff  the market differ, while the tariff recently announced  the KERC may only serve   benchmark for future capacity allotments under the reverse bidding process.  case  smali and rooftop solar plants, there  generally  reverse bidding process. Although Karnataka  yet  announce  specific net metering  rooftop policy, similar policies announced  other states  the region indicate that projects falling under this category have been allocated   first-come-first-serve basis. Specific net metering guidelines wili encourage consumers  weli  investors  look into rooftop projects with renewed interest. CII - Conference  solar power 11Kerala Kerala Solar Energy Policy 2o13  order  mainstream solar energy  Kerala and ensure optimai usage  available solar potentiai  the region, the state government  Kerala formulated its Solar Energy Policy 2o13. Key policy aspects include the following:  achieve  solar installed capacity  5oo   2o17 and , 5oo    promote the use  solar water heating system SWHS and solar steam systems For off-grid systems, the policy seeks  ensure bank finance  attractive rates, and provides generation-based incentives rather than capitai subsidies The Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission KSERC shali notify the normative preferentiai tariff  solar power for procurement  the Kerala State Electricity Board KSEB  case  offsite commerciai installations. For ali agencies that consume grid power and have installed solar installations with some form  government subsidy, only net metering shali  applicable. The government  Kerala wili assess  weli  help developers identify the land areas suitable for solar installations Incentives  the form  exemption  open access charges, wheeling  weli  transmission charges within the state are applicableKerala Off-grid Rooftop Programme Kerala has one  the highest population densities  the country and does not have any sizable area  barren land. This makes the development  utility scale ground mount solar  projects difficult  implement. States geography imposes challenges  solar power generation, thereby making   lesser attractive option  compared  the neighboring states  Tamii Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Hence,  such  scenario, the off-grid rooftop  systems become  attractive proposition for state. Kerala has launched  off-grid solar rooftop programme known  the , ooo Solar Rooftop Programme. Households interested  putting  solar  systems   kWp, off-grid can apply  the state nodai agency, the Agency for Non-Conventionai Energy and Rurai Technology ANERT. Households within the state wili receive   subsidy from the MNRE, and  addition, another , ooo INR from the government  Kerala through the ANERT.   May 2o13,  totai  , 59o applications for these systems have been received  ANERT. Key aspects  this programme  follows: Each rooftop power plant solar array shali    kWp capacity Only off-grid power plants are covered under this programme State wili give additionai subsidy  39ooo INR per system  beneficiary Centrai government subsidy  , ooo INR    the cost  the power plant whichever  less  expected State Transmission and wheeling chargesTransmission and wheeling lossesBanking CSS  third-party Other incentives Andhra PradeshNot applicable Normai transmission and wheeling losses applicableHundred per cent banking permitted.  redemption  banked units between the months  February and June, and also during ToD hoursNot applicable Electricity duty exempted Karnataka Not applicable Not applicable Hundred per cent banking permitted Not applicable None Kerala Not applicable Not applicable Conditionai banking  per the policy - Electricity duty exempted Tamii Nadu proposed Thirty per cent  the applicable chargesNormai transmission and wheeling losses applicableNot yet finalised Fifty per cent  the applicable cross subsidy surchargeElectricity tax exempted for five years for captive, and  1oo demand cut Source: PwC Analysis, Tariff order Applicants must  willing  meet the remaining expense  around  lakh INR  totai  , ooo  such systems wili  installed  the state totaling   solar  capacity Ali the installation has  meet the specifications  the centrai government  weli  implement projects through empanelled vendors Encouraging projects under the open access route With increasing retaii tariffs, industriai  weli  commerciai consumers are considering options  hedge their energy costs. Consumers are currently pursuing the open access based sourcing under  third-party  group captive routes  order  procure energy directly from the generators. These options also help consumers meet their respective renewable  solar purchase obligations.  open access-based power procurement process has been  success  states such  Tamii Nadu. The solar policies and open access  regulations within the southern states support procurement  solar energy through  mechanisms. While the applicable charges for solar  transactions are defined  states such  Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala, Tamii Nadu has proposed the applicable charges   draft order which  yet   finalised. While Karnataka has come  with  complete waiver  open access charges and has paved the way for 1oo banking, other southern states have also extended the specific benefits for solar projects set- under the open access route.  PwC levei  .  INR per kWh. The outstanding inventory  solar RECs tili end  November 2o13  , 5o6 RECs  against the average monthly redemption which has been within the range  , 7o3 RECs  , 257 RECs  2o13. Lower demand due  the lack  strict compliance  the renewable purchase obligation. Some states have come forward  enforce the RPO because  which demand for Solar RECs has picked  since September 2o13. The secondary aspect  related  regulatory support  such projects. Issues such  uncertainty  the open access charges applicable, the matter  extension  concessionai charges  such projects and the REC eligibility have ali contributed  the ambiguity for developers  undertake projects under REC mechanism. Clarity   charges applicable, stringent compliance enforcement and revision  RPO targets, keeping  line with market expectations, wili encourage investments  REC-based projects. REC mechanism The REC mechanism has been framed  order  promote renewable energy development and assist the obligated entities  meet the RPO obligation  way  purchasing the green component  the renewable energy. Tili  November 2o13, 3o8.    solar  capacity and    solar thermai capacity are accredited under the REC mechanism  the country. Out  this capacity, only .    accredited from the southern states. Similarly out  262   solar  capacity registered under the REC mechanism  the country, only .    registered from the four states  southern India. Capacity addition under the REC mechanism  not significant, primarily due  the fact that the current demand for solar RECs  much lower than the supply available. This has resulted  the building    large amount  unsold inventory  solar RECs, and   result, the clearing prices have remained  the floor price Conclusion Undoubtedly, with  basic policy and regulatory framework  place,  certain market fundamentals are addressed,  the future, solar energy can play  significant role for  secure and diversified mix  energy  the southern region  India. Currently, the region  chalking out  roadmap  position itself   hub for solar power. Despite its highs and lows, policy-backed projects wili continue   the largest driver for new capacity addition  the coming years, while business models wili  explored  order  match the market requirements. CII - Conference  solar power  Inadequate evacuation infrastructure Load management  grid, owing  the infirm nature  the generation This problem,  not tackled, wili also affect the solar generation sources which are coming    huge way, over the next few years.  per the CEA, , 713   renewable energy generation capacity  expected   added  12th Five Year Plan which includes around , 5oo  from Tamii Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. These three states are expected  add close  , ooo   solar power capacity  FY17.   therefore important for the southern region  address the evacuation-related issues  order  maximise the utilisation  the  sources. Management  renewable energy Understanding the need for strengthening the transmission evacuation, the forum  regulators and the Power Grid Corporation  India Limited PGCIL  July 2o12 proposed the need for  Green Energy Corridor for evacuating renewable energy generation  the -rich states. PGCIL has proposed  augment  inter-state transmission system,  intra-state transmission System, and  last mile connectivity system  the state transmission utility STU network, and strengthening within state for conveyance  ISTS transfer. Transmission and evacuation infrastructure plans Renewable energy generation  India  concentrated within  few states, and within  couple  districts  those states. Generation capacity has increased rapidly over time, but the evacuation infrastructure development has been able  keep pace with the generation infrastructure. Currently, certain pockets  the state transmission network are yet  support evacuation  renewable energy  its peak generation. With additionai capacity likely   added  the sites with good potentiai which are situated far away from load centres, the network  bound  face congestion. Investors today focus  setting  projects even  good potentiai sites, even after considering the evacuation challenges. Wind  weli  solar generation sources are infirm generation sources, and are deemed   must run. However,  has been observed that wind power generating sources  states  Tamii Nadu and Karnataka have been asked  back-down leading  significant loss  revenue  weli  electricity generation. Key reasons towards this step are  follows: Intra-state transmission system proposed  the -rich states State Transmission line Additionai Substations Tamii Nadu , 44o ckms  4oo  line  ckms  23o  line  ckms  11o  line  .  4oo 23o    83o MVA  .  23o 11o    3ooMVA Andhra Pradesh 46o ckms  4oo  line 582 ckms  22o  line  .  4oo 22o    126o MVA  .  22o 132    112oMVA Source: PGCIL,  per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance  ISTS Proposed connectivity system  the STU network intra-state State Transmission line Additionai Substations Tamii Nadu , 62o ckms  23o  line , 84o ckms  11o  line  .  23o     29oo MVA  .  11o     44oo MVA Karnataka 63o ckms  22o  line , 16o ckms  132  line  .  22o     12oo MVA  .  132     175o MVA Andhra Pradesh 9oo ckms  22o  line 16oo ckms  132  line  .  22o     16oo MVA  .  132     245o MVA Source: PGCIL,  per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance  ISTS  PwCProposed system strengthening within the state for conveyance  ISTS transfer State Transmission line Tamii Nadu , 24o ckms  4ookV line , 5oo ckms  23okV line  .  4oo 23o 11o    6925 MVA  .  23o 11o    265o MVA Karnataka 72o ckms  22o  line - Andhra Pradesh 26o ckms  4oo  line , 178 ckms  22o  line  .  4oo 22o    22o5 MVA  .  22o 132    6oo MVA 4oo 22o    Augmentation 3465 MVA 22o 132    Augmentation 145o MVA Source: PGCIL,  per the DPR, excluding elements for conveyance  ISTS Some  the proposed inter-state transmission systems corridors  the southern region are  follows: Establishment   plus 5oo , 25oo  New Pugalur - Hyderabad HVDC Bipole Establishment   4oo  Srisailam - Kurnooi New Double Circuit   The New Pugalur - Udumalpet 4oo    The New Pugalur - Vagarai 4oo    quad The New Pugalur - Pugalur 4oo    quad The Hyderabad Hyderabad New 4oo    quad The LILO  Tuticorin Pooi-Salem 765  line  New Pugalur initially   operated  4oo  Establishment   5oo , HVDC terminai stations 25ooMW, each  New Pugalur and Hyderabad Establishment  4oo  substations  New Pugalur and Hyderabad   positive note, work towards building the Green Energy Corridor has been initiated, and the Government  India has received its first tranche  soft loan from Germany under Indo-German Bilaterai Development Cooperation Program  November 2o13. Considering the fact the gestation period   projects  much shorter than the time required  plan and construct evacuation infrastructure,   criticai  accelerate the construction process  order  accommodate energy from the  projects. Grid integration for renewables Generation  power from solar and wind energy are variable  nature, and high levels  penetration  observed  the -rich states, such  the four states  southern India, can impact the stability  the grid which  required  operate within  tight frequency band  weli  other operating parameters. Rather than curtailing the generation  power  requesting  projects  back-down their generation  imposing penalties  calling for strict adherence  forecasting,   important  develop systems  weli  infrastructure which can help  managing the grid effectively Forecasting  generation Forecasting  generation from  sources can help the system operator  managing other generation sources and demand Forecasting can  done  the  generator  the system operator,  done  Europe.  generators must not  penalised for giving inaccurate forecast. Since the forecasting systems are not matured and the accuracy  forecast  better  the grid scale rather than individuai farm levei Peaking power and hydro generation The state must try  manage the grid  utilizing gas-based peaking power stations, and storage-based hydro power plants  order  scale  and down the generation    accommodate the variable  generation. Smart grid Smart grids can help  managing the grid instability  efficient controi  demand and other generation sources. Reai-time markets  per the industry, having  place  reai-time market,  addition  existing Day Ahead Market DAM wili help provide opportunity  the states  handle variable generation from  sources Solar energy when compared  the other infirm renewable energy generation sources  easier  forecast. Various mathematicai models have evolved over time, which can fairly estimate the generation. Accuracy  expected   low  the farm levei, but when aggregated   district  state grid levei, the levei  accuracy  expected   considerably high. The CEA report  grid integration   power also suggests having  place renewable energy management centres  each state, and regionai load dispatch centres which wili conduct  reai-time forecast  the  generation, and work with load dispatch centres  effective controi  the grid. Currently, owing  the inadequate integration  the northern with the southern grid, and also the inadequate integration  various states transmission networks,  has been difficult  manage excess  under generation   specific -rich state. However, with the commissioning  the Raichur- Sholapur 765  link line and strengthening  the inter-state transmission system   part  the Green Energy Corridor, surplus energy could  exported  the energy-deficit states, which could also manage the stability  grid. CII - Conference  solar power  Financing  solar projects Renewable energy projects, including solar projects are highly capitai-intensive  nature. Therefore raising finance  the most important activity for the development  the project,  financiai costs form the biggest component  the overali operationai cost, and  the major cash out flow for the project untii the debt  repaid. Risk perceived Factors Mitigation Construction risk Land acquisition The government can assist companies  identifying and assisting  land acquisition  can provide government land for lease. Project developers face hurdles while obtaining evacuation approvai and obtaining right  way for installing evacuation infrastructureThe government can support project developers  providing quicker evacuation approvals and assist developers  addressing ROW- related issues. Another option  that government can build evacuation infrastructure and the cost can  borne  the project developer. Operations risk Reduced generation owing  frequent plant down timeThere   need for quality  project execution and  . Investors have  strike  balance between the capitai cost  project and quality,  order  minimise the downtime during the life  the project Generation not  per the projectionsA good solar resource assessment SRA prepared using long-term data and quality information  required  predict the long-term PLF   more accurate manner. Also,  good SRA reduces the generation uncertainty and  criticai  document for lender  investor appraisai. Curtailment  generation due  congestion  evacuation infrastructureThe states must plan evacuation infrastructure taking into consideration  long-term view  possible growth  generation and demand from consumers. The viability  the project greatly depends  obtaining cheaper cost  funds and timely financiai closure. Financing  grid connected  scale projects  has been observed that solar project developers find  difficult  raise finance. The lenders  weli  equity investors have  high-risk perception about solar power projects, resulting  difficulty  raising funds. Higher risk perception  projects results  increased cost  financing  terms  higher cost  debt  weli  the security required   offered.  also results  delay  raising funds due  increased due diligence efforts.  PwCCommerciai risk PPA risk- delay  default  paymentsStrong payment security  the form   unconditionai irrevocable letter  credit   bank guarantee can  taken from the buyer state utility   consumer  order  reduce any risks related  payments risk.   important  evaluate the credit rating  the consumer before entering into  PPA. Policy changes and change  revenues  -based modelsIncrease   charges after project commissioning can drastically reduce the net realisation, and therefore, affect the project viability. The government must ensure policy certainty and not change the policies  regulations which affect the viability  operationai projects. REC-based projects Strict enforcement  RPO  utilities  weli  other obligated entities  the states  required Promoter risk Equity Projects sponsors must secure the required equity for the project before approaching the lenders. Track record and credit ratingExperience  successfully executing power projects along with experienced management can give comfort  the lenders Good credit rating  the promoters wili   positive factor  raising funds  has been observed that financing  JNNSM-based and  couple  state projects have been easier when compared  others. This  because  the quality  PPAs and the generation performance. Debt financing for solar thermai generation projects  observed   relatively difficult given its lower installed base  the country.  per the industry, more support  required for solar thermai projects from the government, including providing finance tili the capabilities and the required ecosystem gets built over the period  time  the country. Most  the project risks are directly  indirectly related  the lack  supporting policy and regulations from the government. Strong policy support which can help  mitigating risks  required  order  enable easy access  cheaper finance  project developers Owing  inherent risks  the development  solar  weli  other renewable energy projects today few projects have raised finance   non- recourse basis. Project developers are made  give securities  weli  collaterals  the form  corporate  personai guarantee, bank guarantees and  some cases, hard collaterals such  land over and above project land and assets. Debt financing Unlike other renewable power projects, solar power projects have access  multiple sources  debt financing which include conventionai long-term debt from banks and financiai institutions, funding from export credit agencies and development finance agencies. Sources Details Issues Indian Banks and NBFCs Primary source  financing Available for projects  various sizesHigher cost  funds Export credit agenciesEXIM banks  various countries have come forward  finance projects executed with equipment, sourced from their respective countries. These banks only provide debt  the tune  the amount equai  the imported items which form close      the project cost. Remaining amount has   raised from Indian banks Owing  increased volatility  the USD-INR exchange equation, the cost  hedging has reduced the competitiveness  foreign currency loan. Further, hedging  only available for larger size projects being developed  promoters with strong profiles. Development finance institutionsVarious Development Finance Institutions such  the IFC, OPIC, JICA, kfW, etc have financed solar projects  India  lower interest rates.  USD terms Owing  increased volatility  the USD-INR exchange equation, EXIM funds are increased, thereby resulting  the net cost  debt increasing  1oo  3oo bps CII - Conference  solar power  Other financing strategies Construction risk  considered   most criticai risk  per lenders and investors. The projects are considered  have  low risk profile after commissioning. Project developers therefore have  option  refinance the project with cheaper funds. Developers with  good track record can also opt  issue long-term fixed rate bonds  the construction stage  during operations for refinancing. Government can also support  offering tax incentives  such solar bonds. Post-commissioning, any good quality project under preferentiai tariff wili generate annuity kind  returns. Considering the lower risk profile, future cash flows can  securitised and the money can  utilised  repay the debt   invest  other projects. Project developers  few cases have availed supplier credit which enables them  pay the equipment supplier  installments after commissioning. This strategy allows payment  the capitai cost from the operationai revenues. However,  has been observed that the duration  credit provided  suppliers have reduced over the period  time. Equity financing The country has seen increased investor interest  renewable energy industry. While wind energy sector being  mature industry has seen severai equity deals, the solar industry has also attracted numerous investments. Timeline Target companyInvestor Deai type Deai value  million USD Segment November 2o13NavSemi Energy Pte LtdAlpha Technologies Acquisition  Equipment October 2o13 Claro Energy Minority stake purchaseAngei investorsNA Solar Power Solutions June 2o13  5MW solar power projectFortum Acquisition  IPP January 2o13 Megatech Power Equipments Pvt LtdConsui Consolidated LtdAcquisition  Solar Power Solutions January 2o13 HHV Solar Swelect Energy Systems LtdMinority stake purchase3.  Module manufacturer June 2o12 Sunborne EnergyNA Minority stake purchase5 IPP February 2o12Eversun EnergyTecpro SystemsAcquisition  Solar EPC February 2o12Enelek Power Blue Circle Services LtdAcquisition  Solar thermai solutions February 2o12Alex Astrai Power Pvt LtdShree Ganesh Jewellery HouseAcquisition .  IPP January 2o12 Gadhia Solar Zephyr Peacock Management IndiaMinority stake purchase7.  Solar thermai solutions Source: ISI Emerging Market  PwC Deals took place not only  the area  power generation, but also  the equipment and solutions side.  order  have increased investments into the solar energy sector  the country,   important  have low-risk, good quality generation projects backed  supportive policy and innovation along various segments  the value chain  the technology companies. Financing  decentralised solar generation Solar power generation can work   decentralised solution, thereby maximizing the benefits for the consumer. Decentralised generation projects include rooftop  ground mount systems  the size     close    being set-  supply power  the industriai  commerciai and retaii consumers. Various business models have evolved  the developed economies  weli   India, which are based  decentralised power generation through solar. Widely used business models are  follows: Set-, own and operate for captive consumptions Projects set-   IPP within the premises  the consumer and energy sold through  PPA Solar generation assets are leased  the consumer for self-consumption under  financiai lease  hire purchase MNRE  the JNNSM scheme outlined financing support for decentralised power generation sources which   addition  the capitai subsidy.  per the scheme, MNRE through Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency Limited IREDA and other agencies such  the Nationai Bank for Agriculture and Rurai Development NABARD, Nationai Housing Board NHB, Smali Industries Development Bank  India SIDBI, etc directly  through commerciai banks refinanced  IREDA, NABARD, NHB, SIDBI, etc wili provide loans,  not more than   the approved projects. Project developers can however opt for long-term debt from commerciai banks through balance sheet funding. While the market size  the IPP modei implementing the decentralised solar generation projects within the developed economies  matured,  India, the market  stili  its nascent stage. The market wili grow  more IPP-based decentralised generation projects come , validating and improving the business models over the period  time.   important from the lenders and investors perspective  have business models established  order  understand the risks and appropriately price the funds. Tili that time,   important for the government  continue supporting the decentralised power generation market with required funding. CII - Conference  solar power 19Globai outlook Europe  highest solar installation with more than7o  solar capacity  2o12, representing about   the globai cumulative  capacity. Markets outside Europe China .  ,  .  , Japan .  , Australia .   and regions such  Africa, Middle East, South East Asia and Latin America are emerging with potentiai frameworks that may change the topography  solar power projects  the near future.  contrast the segment being largely driven  feed- tariff FiT based projects, presently and also  future market are likely   structured based  business modei that can drive regionai price expectations   levei that makes solar power compete with fossii fuels. Evolution  globai  cumulative installed capacity 2oo9 -2o12  Source: Globai Market Outlook 2o13, EPIAMeasures taken  market leaders  promote the solar sector Japan Details Solar  Procurement category1o   moreLess than   purchase  excess electricity Tariff per  .  yen .  yen Duration  years  years Japan approved its FiT scheme for renewable energy  2o11. This Act obliges electric utilities  purchase electricity generated from renewable energy sources solar , wind power, hydro power, geothermai and biomass based   fixed-period contract with fixed price. Costs incurred  purchasing renewable energy sourced electricity shali  transferred  the electricity customers, who pay  surcharge for renewable energy proportionai  electricity usage. China  one  the largest markets for renewables  the world, China though slow  develop its own solar energy market, has quickly gained momentum and reached approximately . 3GW  2o12 since its start  2o1o. Early 2o13, China raised its solar target for the fourth time  two years     2o15.  around the same time, China also announced    installation goai for 2o13. Government subsidies for solar  projects  China are granted through speciai programs, such  the  Building Demonstration Programme, Golden Sun Programme and FiT.  addition  the state councii  policy detailed policies related  solar Feed--Tariff, tax incentives, development  distributed generation infrastructure and simplifying project approvai procedures are announced. Legislative measures like the Electricity Act 1996, Interim Regulation  the -grid Tariff 2oo5, Renewable Energy Law 2oo6, Regulations  the Administration  Renewable Power Energy 2oo6 provide the basic framework for securing development and defining rules  pricing  renewable power and the relevant government subsidies  China. The Nationai Development and Reform Commission  Perfection  Policy  the second half  2o13 seeks revision  current FiT  encourage the development  solar   China.  PwCGermany Since inception  2ooo, The Renewable Energy Sources Act promotes renewable energy notably solar , wind power and biomass through FiT. The  Directive  sets out   wide target  achieving   the finai energy consumption from renewables  2o2o. Germany  finai target    2o2o.  addition the country targets  achieve the following levels  2o2o: Green house gas reduction  below 199o levei; renewable heat target   thermai energy from renewable energy sources and renewable energy target . Nationai Renewable Energy Action Plan NREAP targets .   solar installations  2o2o. Module prices, internationally are generally not stable The reai case for solar energy   near term alternative  fossii energy  largely pegged  the view that the cost  solar energy have come down rapidly  recent years and wili continue     the coming years, largely dictated  the module prices.  seen from the spot market price  the , though solar module prices have dropped substantially  recent years, much  the decline  recent years  due  overproduction and dumping from regions like China. However balance--system BOS and other costs that now represent  larger share  installed project costs can become the next barrier.  October 2o13, there are two price levels which are increasingly visible for module supplies from Asia - one for modules from Chinese production which  subject  the  agreement and thus  restriction  imports; and the other one from the rest  Asian region for which there are  regulatory barriers. Globai supply chain for photovoltaic modules  seen  stabilise since third quarter, 2o13 with the   anti-dumping tariffs  the Chinese solar modules driving  prices. Such trade conflicts might mean low cost modules for commerciai use may became scarce and the cost  solar energy components increase  the year 2o14. Coridor revision proposal199o - 1999 Stromeinspeisungsgesetz StrEg, 199o:  receives   retaii electricity price .  - .  Euro cents per kWh 1oo, ooo roofs programme, 1999. Receives interest free loan 2ooo - 2oo4 2ooo: Erneuerbare Energien Gesetz EEG:  receives  cents kWh 35oMW program cap 5MW system cap for roof tops 1ookW system cap for free standing 2oo2:  cap programme cap raised  1oooMW 2oo4: EEG amended New rates between  -  Euro cents per kWh Programme and system size cap removed 2oo8 - 2o1o 2oo8 - 2o1o: EEG amended Nationai FiT registry created CII - Conference  solar power  Source: -magazine  spot market module price trend mono poly and average net price Euro  Source: PVXchangeCan projects built  India continue  stand out from globai competition? With entry barriers  the , the strategy  globai manufacturers appears  shift towards performance  the modules sold  similar prices and focus  service and the associated globai operations cost. Overseas manufacturers might prefer  focus  enhancing their product and incorporate additionai quality assurance measures  their manufacturing operations  order  ensure generation commitments. This means good quality modules comes   price  projects  India. However, lack  any major breakthrough  solar installation and developmentai methods, technology improvements, procedurai and deployment hurdles for large scale projects  likely  remain costly and labour intensive atleast with respect  India.   increasingly becoming clear that modules below 25o  for crystalline technology are losing priority  utility scale projects  India. Reductions  cost can come incrementally,  response  scaling   domestic solar manufacturing capacities and sustained subsidies  order  realise the fuli potentiai. Scaling solar without heavy subsidies wili require bringing both module and installation costs dramatically, significant breakthroughs  electricity transmission and evacuation, storage options and pursuit for centralised solar plants that can benefit from economies  scale and high irradiation,  specific locations with high insolation levei are concentrated for development.   long-term strategy, developing better and cost competitive technologies, introducing solar subsidies may  justified. But heavily subsidised projects may not ideally represent  true strategy  replace fossii energy. Module price USD per   region - Qtr , 2o13 Tier , Chinese supplierPrice USD per   PwCThe need for  competitive ecosystem  India Currently, the totai solar  module production capacity  India  approximately   while the celi manufacturing capacity  around 85o . Bulk  India  solar  industry  dependent  imports  criticai raw materials  weli  components, including silicon wafers. Most Indian companies are either standalone module companies  standalone celi companies for example, Jupiter, Indosolar, Euro Multivision. Few companies are into both celi  weli  module production for example, Tata Power Solar, Moser Baer, Websoi. Presently, some companies are attempting  have their presence  the upstream wafer manufacturing and poly-silicon production, but the capacities are insignificant and projects are met with delays. Due  lack  integration, Indian companies  not have the leverage  keep their manufacturing costs down. The top Chinese manufacturing companies alone have  module and celi production capacity more than the totai installed capacity  India. Due  this scale, these large companies are able  reduce their unit costs  significant levels. Solar modules have been priced aggressively  the globai market, below the levei which can  supported  the domestic manufacturers, resulting  under- utilisation  domestic capacity. The huge capacity build-  Chinese manufacturers resulted  serious demand-supply imbalance  the globai  market. Over  solar  companies announced bankruptcy  exit the solar market globally key players include Bosch, Siemens,  Cells, Solyandra, Siemens, Abound Solar, Conergy, etc. . Transforming India into  solar energy hub wili include  leadership role  low-cost, high quality solar manufacturing, including balance  system components. Conducive policy initiatives:  boost  India  manufacturing sector  required given the competitive globai manufacturing market, positioning India   manufacturing hub requires developmentai goals, support from the centrai  weli  state government, enhancement  technology and investment    initiatives, pipeline  future projects that gives opportunities for domestic manufacturers  compete  the globai landscape.  support   strong domestic manufacturing sector, inspite  policy directives and incentives  the centrai and the state levei,  large scale development has taken place  solar photovoltaics and solar thermai manufacturing, largely due  the focus  specific segments  the ecosystem, like generation projects. Domestic solar  manufacturing capacity   5oo 1ooo 15oo 2oooModulesCellsWafersIngot Capacity Source: Market ResearchDomestic manufacturing capacity utilisation        2o1o2o112o12 utlisationYears CII - Conference  solar power 23Policies stimulating solar manufacturing ecosystem Semiconductor Policy, 2oo7 The Semiconductor Policy announced  the government  India  2oo7 provides  speciai incentive package  attract investments for setting  semiconductor fabrication and other micro and nanotechnology manufacturing industries. The incentives are for ali semiconductors not only those exclusive  solar photovoltaic  and solar thermai technology.  key benefit  the grant  the SEZ status. The speciai incentive package shali  available  per the SEZ Policy. Karnataka Semiconductor Policy 2o1o The government  Karnataka through the Karnataka Semiconductor Policy 2o1o has given  impetus  the growth  semiconductor industries  the state. The policy specifically encourages and provides assistance  solar  manufacturing units under the Karnataka Renewable Energy Policy. Highlights  the policy include the following: Location  land with access  infrastructure such  ports and airports  close proximity; Karnataka Power Corporation Limited KPCL and KREDL also taking steps  develop solar farms   and PPP mode  districts such  Bijapur, Gulbarga, Raichur and Bellary Fiscai incentives  micro, smali, medium manufacturing enterprises MSMEs Exemption  stamp duty for MSME, large, mega projects 1oo for Zone  and Zone ;  for Zone  Exemption from entry tax  1oo exemption from payment  plant and machinery, capitai goods, for the first three years from the commencement  project implementation;  raw materials, inputs, component parts and consumables for five years from the commencement  commerciai production Interest subsidy for micro manufacturing enterprises: interest    term loan Hundred per cent exemption  electricai duty and tax for three  five years Types  unit Threshold NPV  investmentsIncentives  SEZ Incentives  non SEZ Fab unit 25oo crore INR   capitai expenditure25  capitai expenditure exemption from countervailing duty Eco system unit1ooo crore INR   capitai expenditure25  capitai expenditure exemption from countervailing duty Andhra Pradesh Electronic Hardware Policy 2o12-2o17 Andhra Pradesh has instituted  policy  promote electronics, including solar  modules and cells. Highlights  the policy are  follows: Hundred per cent reimbursement  stamp duty, transfer duty and registration fee paid  sale, lease deeds, mortgages and hypothecations  the first transaction Two and  half per cent reimbursement  stamp duty, transfer duty and registration fee paid  sale, lease deeds, mortgages and hypothecations  the second transaction Admissibility  industriai power category tariff Four and  half per cent  micro,   smali,   medium and   large-scale industry limited   lakh INR  power subsidy  power bills for  period  five years from the date  commencement  commerciai operations Reimbursement and grant   exhibition subsidy for participating  nationai and internationai exhibitions limited     space Twenty per cent investment subsidy limited   lakh INR for micro and smali industries and additionai  incentive subsidy for women, ,  entrepreneurs Three per cent interest rebate limited   lakh INR per year for five years Ten per cent subsidy  new capitai equipment for technology upgradation limited   lakh INR  one-time availment  the eligible company Fifty per cent subsidy  the expenses incurred for quality certification limited   lakh INR Conformity European , China, Compulsory Certificate CCC,  Certification, ISO, CMM Certification, , , etc Twenty-five per cent subsidy  cleaner and green production measures limited   lakh INR Hundred per cent tax reimbursement  VAT and CST, for the new units started after the date  issue  this policy, for  period  five years from the date  commencement  production for products made   and sold   Twenty-five per cent rebate  land cost limited   lakh INR  industriai estates, industriai parks, SEZs, hubs, parks and clusters Fifty per cent reimbursement and grant  cost involved  skili upgradation and training the locai manpower limited  , ooo INR per person Tamii Nadu Solar Policy 2o12 Tamii Nadu Solar Policy provides added incentives  attract and encourage solar manufacturing  the state. The policy states that capacity  about 1ooo  annum  locai manufacturing wili result  direct and indirect job creation. Highlights  incentives are  follows: Appropriate tax incentives  per Tamii Nadu Solar Policy Creation  solar manufacturing ecosystem that includes solar research centres, test facilities, resource assessment facilities Exclusive solar manufacturing parks  the state and preference  existing industriai SEZsIndian government incentives for semiconductors  PwCIn sum, support  manufacturing  important  set the platform for solar power  play  important role  meeting energy security and clean energy considerations  India. Domestic content requirement  JNNSM Phase  Batch  for 375   the government  India  seen   encouragement for locai manufacturers. Yet, the need  the hour   ramp  domestic manufacturing facilities  for the next few years. Further upstream, cells, wafers and poly- silicon wili not see much growth unless there  strong drive from the government through policy and regulatory support.  addition, the state governments can identify potentiai sites for developing solar parks with basic infrastructure  place. Key areas that policies can look into include: Priority sector lending status for solar manufacturing,  promote investment  manufacturing and access  debt funding Access  lower cost funds  improve the cost competitiveness  the domestic players Provision  land and suitable infrastructure including reliable power supply  house the entire manufacturing eco-system wafers, cells, modules and balance  systems. Building projects based  sustainable technology choices With increase  retaii tariffs and decrease  solar panei costs, solar projects are becoming cost-competent  retaii supply tariff  selective states, but   commercially viable, technology should achieve higher efficiency levels  current cost, maximize generation from existing capacities and should improve operations and management practices. Technology selection best suited  the requirement The best technology for  solar power plant depends  the specific application and the requirement.  broad variety  technologies  expected  continue  characterise the technology portfolio, depending  the specific requirements and economics  the applications tariff structure, meteorologicai conditions, land availability, evacuation levels, future aspirations  policymakers and others. Crystalline vis--vis thin film technology: Both crystalline  weli  thin-film technologies have gained significant traction  the last few years and have come out  proven technologies.  India, both the technologies have fairly equai installations.  the Indian environment, the effect  dust, soiling, climate and degradation are cruciai factors for the success  any technology. Solar thermai technology: Concentrated solar power CSP  advantageous  that   utility scalable technology,  dispatchable and  firm  option. With the inherent energy storage capability  the form  heat that can  used  generate electricity   hours later and with further support from additionai thermai storage systems   hybrid system design, CSP plants can continue  produce stable electricity even when cloud block the sun  the sun sets.    much less challenging  integrate CSP than wind   generation into power systems. Although CSP has better performance for grid integration, but  relatively challenging technology and current high cost limit its large-scale deployment. One disadvantage  CSP  that  requires strong direct sunlight.   result, adequate CSP resources are generally limited  semi-arid, hot regions  deserts.  particular, India does not have conducive ecosystem for the development  CSP because very less projects have been undertaken with this technology. Solar trackers: Optimising the energy produced and making the most  scarce resources such  land have become increasingly important  developers look for higher profit. Solar trackers which move the panels  follow the trajectory  the sun can increase solar power production     compared   fixed-tilt system. Projects based  trackers have been implemented  India under the JNNSM scheme and     seen with further localisation how IPPs and developers wili deploy projects based  trackers with programmes demanding higher PLF.  verticai integration  the manufacturing process, from sand  module, lowers the production cost. India today does not have this advantage and  largely dependent  imports for cruciai materials such  silicon wafers, encap-sulating materiai and high transmission glass. The key challenge  the imposition  import duty  input items  the manufacturing process  solar celi and modules, where- there   import duty  finished solar equipment solar modules.  make the country  manu-facturing hub, policy must decide its objective:  drive  market that  import driven  create  robust domestic manufacturing base. Concentrated solar power CSP could have  unique role  India  energy mix with its potentiai  hybrid and its ability  easily add storage could unlock dispatchable and base-load power, setting the stage for larger renewable energy penetration. Localisation:  solution  the manufacturing sector for solar power generators Capitai costs  solar installations have fallen drastically  the last five years. This has seen many states adopt the technology. Economies  scale, technologicai innovation and the learning curve affect the attempt  drive costs further down.  may  noted that within the overali system costs, the proportion  non- module system costs  increasing.  fact, the cost reduction possibilities  the non-module segment  system costs could weli determine the timing  grid parity. The cost reduction trends for non-module system costs can  achieved through low-cost financing, locai sourcing  materials, localised assembly and production  invertors. CII - Conference  solar power 25Accelerating   initiatives  make technology competitive With the aim  achieving further significant cost reductions and efficiency improvements,    predicted  continuously progress  improving existing technologies and developing new technologies. Currently, innovation  the solar sector  happening  developed parts  the world such  the  and Europe. Slowdown  Europe wili reduce further innovation. The  has been able  identify  significant amount  shale gas reserves which can  made commercially available  around  USD per mmbtu. There  less incentive for them  invest  solar which  relatively costlier than the newly found shale gas reserves.  the other hand, India which  struggling  source coai and gas required for conventionai power plants has  depend  imports and has  option but  get the most out  wind, solar and other renewable technologies. The country needs  support and gain leadership  terms  innovation  solar technologies.   for the indigenisation  technology and quality standards for both manufacturing  weli  solar project implementation most suited  India should  undertaken  focus  optimising energy generation from existing devices and applications, reducing integration and other plant BOS costs, and improving efficiency  generation devices. Considering solar can provide options for storage, the focus should also   developing cost-effective storage technologies which would address both variability and storage constraints, through the use  better and improved materials.  may  noted that the Indian Institute  Science IISc, Bangalore and the Nationai Renewable Energy Laboratory NREL, Golden, Colorado, USA have undertaken the project for SERIIUS, the Solar Energy Research Institute for India  order  accelerate the development  solar electric technologies  lowering the cost per watt  photovoltaics  and concentrated solar power CSP. There needs   increase  such initiatives and efforts  order  commercialise such developments. Effective operation and maintenance Like any other project, solar power projects require higher plant uptime  consistently operate  peak performance. System monitoring, preventive maintenance, maintenance  criticai spares and addressing repairs are cruciai for  plant owner,  reduce downtime and derive maximum value over the lifetime  the installation. Operating  solar plant entails managing  broad variety  elements including plant performance and reliability, safety and risks, spares and receivables, generation guarantees and warranty enforcement.   understand, maintenance regimes play  criticai role  solar power projects. While corrective maintenance regimes remain common  practice, preventive and condition based maintenance strategies represent  growing trend.   estimated that  usage  Tier  module supplier for development  solar project can increase the generation upto .  India, realising this criticai aspect, some IPPs and EPCs have invested  house teams  order  standardise   practices across their facility portfolios and are working  systematise remote monitoring and efficiently identify, diagnose and resolve problems across  wide portfolio  systems.  the solar industry struggles with the uncertainty  panei pricing,   turning  the optimisation  system energy output  order  make the economic case for solar power projects  attractive investment. Source: SunPowerRange  improvement  output through    PwCSecuring and diversifying the energy mix  distributed generation Distributed generation  refers  electricity produced   near the point  consumption. For  large and dispersed rurai based country like India, decentralised power generation systems offers  better solution. Distributed solar energy can  located  rooftops  ground-mounted, and typically connected  the locai utility distribution grid, thereby avoiding transmission and distribution costs. Solar   ideai for smali-scale projects, and also for places without access  electric grid. Government policy initiatives The government  India has adopted  integrated energy policy which aims  provide energy security  ali its citizens through conventionai  weli  alternative sources  energy. Some  the policies adopted  the Indian government are  follows. The Electricity Act, 2oo3 has given  thrust  distributed generation particularly  the context  rurai electrification. The Act specifies distributed generation and supply through stand-alone conventionai and renewable energy systems. The Nationai Electricity Policy recommends under the rurai electrification component, that  provide  reliable rurai electrification system, wherever conventionai grid  not feasible, decentralised distributed generation facilities using conventionai  non-conventionai sources  energy together with locai distribution network  provided. Two specific schemes, the Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojna and the Remote Village Electrification Scheme, wili provide    capitai subsidy for rurai electrification projects using decentralised distributed generation options based  conventionai and non-conventionai fuels. The JNNSM policy document mentions implementation     solar rooftop installations  2o22. JNNSM Phase  also promotes off-grid solar especially for improved energy access for remote areas, encouragement  heating and cooling applications, replacement  diesei and kerosene, distributed generation, industriai process heat applications, solar water irrigation pumping systems, etc. The policy target   follows: Twenty thousand villages, hamlets, bastis and padas   electrified  deployment  off-grid electricity generation projects Deployment  around  lakh off-grid lighting systems Development  solar cities  weli  inclusion  more Deployment  , ooo solar pumps  the end   2o17 Deployment  around , ooo solar integrated telecom towers Target     cities where solar water heaters wili become the main source  heating water replacing electric geysers SECI  promoting rooftop programme  conducting competitive bidding has already allotted .    four cities  the Phase   the rooftop programme  Aprii 2o13. The SECI has also invited bidders  take part  the allocation process for .    six cities  Phase . The bidder has  quote  cost  INR  terms based  which the SECI wili provide  capitai subsidy  . MNRE also promotes off-grid through subsidy schemes where  provides   capitai subsidy  the benchmark costs for rooftop applications 1oo   year, and also through solar cities which aim  reduce   city dependence  conventionai energy  the end  five years. Distributed generation projects can also avaii accelerated depreciation benefit, wherein they can avaii  depreciation benefit  the first year  operation. CII - Conference  solar power  Further, ali southern states are promoting rooftop and distributed generation projects: The Tamii Nadu Solar Policy aims 35o   rooftop capacity  three phases  1oo, 125 and 125  per year during 2o13- 2o15. Apart from this, the state wili also implement 3oo  from government buildings and government schemes for rurai and urban lighting. Kerala launched its , ooo rooftop power plants programme for 2o12-2o13. Apart from the MNRE   capitai subsidy, the state  offering  discount  , ooo INR per system. The unique aspect  the programme  that the policy support  completely for off-grid  systems, whereas ali other programmes  the country have opted for  grid-tied system. The KREDL along with the SECI  implementing 1297 numbers  . 5kW and 646 numbers  1kW grid connected rooftop systems  Karnataka. Andhra Pradesh has also announced its intention  promoting rooftop solar systems through  net-metering mechanism. NEDCAP, the state nodai agency  also helping  bringing awareness for solar distributed generation, solar lanterns, etc. Need  prioritise -situ generation for self-consumption with  net-metering approach Countries such  the , Japan and Germany have high rooftop solar installations and are estimated  meet  high    their totai electricity requirement from solar rooftops. States such  Gujarat and Karnataka have been promoting solar rooftops with feed--tariffs. Cities are experimenting with policies  encourage distributed solar  offset peak electricity demand and stabilise the locai grid through rooftops. Though  puts the additionai challenge  monitoring and verification  distribution utilities, states have now come  with the solar rooftop policy  self-consumption with net metering policy  help the seamless integration  the technology with the grid. With net-metering, consumers can instali rooftop  and first use the solar generation for their own consumption, and feed  only excess rooftop  generation into the utility grid. They wili continue  draw their power requirement from the grid  and when needed. Consumers with high tariffs and high energy use wili benefit most from . Bili savings from such avoided costs wili determine the viability  rooftop  with net metering. Rooftop and decentralised generation projects with net-metering support allow southern states  deai with  high-deficit situation apart from offering other benefits: Decentralised generation can  set   various sizes  retaii, industriai  commerciai consumers  rooftops for captive consumption and sale  excess power through net metering. Consumers can also get relief from   measures and load shedding  establishing decentralised solar projects  states such  Tamii Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Solar generation  higher  summer when the power deficit  generally high and  more predictable than other infirm renewable energy sources. Decentralised generation can also help  meet demand  remote locations and villages, where grid connected power  not available. These solutions can especially benefit agriculturai consumer  rurai areas. Decentralised generation gets consumed locally without significant   losses. This helps offset transmission and distribution equipment needed  deai with new load behaviour and rising electricity demand . . congestion. Solar heating solutions can displace some electricity and fossii fuei based heating solutions. Distributed solar system can decrease the dependency  diesei gen-sets, which are used  most industries connected  grid power due  unreliability use.  reduces land otherwise required for utility sized project. Need for  robust, coordinated and inclusive approach Given the immense market potentiai  rooftop and distributed generation applications,  integrated approach that involves seamless collaboration among partners across the value chain  important. The following wili need specific focus: Nationai Building Codes need  have the framework for the establishment  green buildings,  order  make  mandatory for buildings  implement solar application with proper standards and guidelines. Untii now, the most preferred route for distributed solar  has been the corporate financing route. However, with the expected large-scale adoption  captive solar  power plants, both project finance and asset finance routes can  expected  come into place. Unlike large-scale projects, the decentralised market wili require solutions that have   developed based  customer requirements and setting  logisticai infrastructure  reach the customer. For example,  solar rooftop solution that provides quality performance  lowest possible costs  the consumer end  the need  the hour. Energy-efficient design standards that include building integrated  BIPV into building architecture  generate electricity, allow entry  naturai light and provide heat insulation are needed. Innovative solutions such  solar walls for drying and heating applications  many agro-processing industries work both   standalone system  weli   preheat  traditionai mechanicai operations. Such systems reduce our dependence  fuelwood  fossii fuels required for drying. Standalone, off-grid street lighting with built- automated controls for remote application can provide reliable outdoor lighting for streets, villages, open spaces, etc.  PwCEnabling frameworks wili ensure  sustained push for the solar sector The developer-centric Indian solar market challenges the role  the policy and regulators, leading   approach that has  consider choices  every levei  the market. The health  the industry can improve  focus  kept  the sector ecosystem. Given the severe power shortage  southern India and   measures forcing industriai consumers  look for alternative sources  energy,   imperative for ali four states  encourage investments  both grid connected utility scale  weli  rooftop and decentralised solar energy projects through continuous policy support  encourage innovation  the sector. Solar power projects have come  long way what with the cost  solar  systems considered   barrier   adoption   decreasing trend and technology improvements taking place, they have become economically competitive.   long-term strategy  develop better and cost competitive technologies, introducing solar subsidies may  justified. But heavily subsidised projects may not ideally represent  true strategy  replace fossii energy. Effective implementation  centrai and state policies While the NSM catalyses solar energy growth and  the mission steps into Phase , appreciation for the unique roles solar  utility scale distributed generation and CSP can play  the energy mix are key  the development  each technology. Solar power  ability  easily achieve scale and commissioning timelines coupled with the potentiai  add storage options can unlock dispatchable and base-load power, setting  stage for larger penetration  fundamentai policy and regulatory measures are undertaken and supported  the state levei. The southern states have introduced policies and set optimistic targets for capacity addition, but implementation awaits policy directives. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamii Nadu were expected   the key market drivers for new installations  2o14.  PPAs can  signed for the allocated capacities  these three states, the planned capacities can  quickly commissioned. Similarly,  policy guidelines are implemented effectively, larger interest can  generated among investors. Initiating steps  improve the solar eco-system within the states Each technology has its own advantages. From the context  the Indian market, technology improvement and cost reduction can  structured  drive primary factors--localisation, economies  scale, manufacturing innovations,   and technology improvements, increasing efficiency and reducing cost. Overali, solar  system costs are also driven  factors such  exchange rate fluctuations and interest rates. With  increase  the cost  imported elements  the solar  system, the impact  any exchange rate depreciation wili have  adverse impact  overali system costs and the resultant power tariffs. Specific localisation support initiatives wili reduce such exposures. CII - Conference  solar power 29Enabling the open access market While various incentives are offered  support solar energy procurement through  mechanisms, the following aspects may  better addressed  order  mobilise investments. Investors setting  projects for the supply  power under  mechanisms are concerned about the certainty  applicable  charges for the life  the projects. Any rapid change  the  charges  banking facility after commissioning wili affect the viability  the project. Communications regarding certainty  applicable  charges for the life  the projects can help take investment decisions. Overcoming grid connectivity issues The southern states are facing hurdles  obtaining evacuation approvals for large-scale deployment  capacities solar parks. Securing load flow approvals, ROW and clearances  causing delays  project execution and increase  the cost for developers. Industry expects support from relevant transmission and distribution utilities  weli  state nodai agencies  creating required evacuation infrastructure. With southern states facing huge power deficits and   measures forcing industriai consumers  look for alternate sources  energy, the time  right for the solar energy segment  take off. Initially, the high cost  solar  systems was considered  barrier   adoption but with cost   systems decreasing and the cost  diesei fuei increasing,  systems are becoming economically competitive. Also,  significant demand  southern states comes from the capitai cities where most  the load centres are located. Here, decentralised energy systems can play  role  reducing the dependency  grid connected power. Thus,  shift  focus towards the use  solar power wili help industriai and domestic consumers gain access  power even  peak consumption time. Consumers procuring under third- party and group captive mechanisms are unable  draw energy during scheduled and unscheduled power- cuts and when   measures are imposed. Consumers are required  have dedicated feeders  continue  draw the energy.   difficult for every  consumer  have dedicated feeders. States may structure mechanisms that allow  consumers  continue drawing energy. Land and infrastructure Solar policies  Tamii Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka state that the responsibility  acquire land for any project lies with the developer. Land availability being  major challenge for developers, government support  obtaining clearance wili   major motivator for developers  set  solar plants. Respective governments can endeavour  suitably identify land   offered  developers and facilitate acquisition for grid connected solar installations. About CII Contact The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry- managed organisation, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo members, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo enterprises from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai industry bodies. CII charts change  working closely with government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialized services and strategic globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  key issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civii society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  ali. With  offices, including  Centres  Excellence,  India, and seven overseas offices  Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Mahesh Natarajan Regionai DirectorConfederation  Indian Industry  , Velacherry Main Road Chennai-6oo o32Emaii: cii. south cii. inWebsite: www. cii.  Merin Devassia Deputy DirectorConfederation  Indian Industry98 , Velacherry Main Road Chennai-6oo o32 Emaii: merin cii.  Website: www. cii.  About PwC Contact PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcKameswara Rao Executive Director, Leader, Energy, Utilities and Mining Phone: --6624 6688 Emaii: kameswara. rao . pwc. com Sunii Kumar Associate Director, Energy and Utilities Phone: --6624 62o3 Emaii: sunii. kumar . pwc. com Sathish Kamalanabhan Manager, Energy and Utilities Phone: --4o79 4o42 Emaii: sathish. kamalanabhan . pwc. com www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  127 - November 2o13 CII - Conference  solar power. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India