Title: pwc_innovation-in-fmcg
Date Published: 2013-02-18 12:12:06+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_innovation-in-fmcg.pdf
Word Count: 1208
Sentence Count: 141
Average Sentence Length: 13.57

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
fmcg: 31
innovation: 29
new: 28
pwc: 27
products: 26
consumers: 21
india: 20
market: 19
product: 13
online: 12
growth: 11
source: 11
markets: 9
consumer: 9
globai: 9
brands: 9
china: 8
indian: 7
modei: 7
value: 7

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

The Indian FMCG sector The innovation imperative February 2o13 What  the Asian and Indian FMCG markets look like?  Defining innovation  The FMCG innovation imperative  How does FMCG innovation differ between China and India?  Concluding commentsp8  PwCWhat  the Asian and Indian FMCG markets look like? Rising incomes, escalating demand, new products: FMCG perspectives  Asia, including India Selected FMCG trends  Asia Soaps and cleansers: Market demand growth change  2o11 2o12 2o13 2o14 2o15 Asia and Australasia .  .  .  .  .  China .  .  .  .  .  Hong Kong .  .  .  .  .  India .  .  .  .  .  Japan -.  .  .  .  .  Food, beverages, tobacco: Market demand growth change  2o11 2o12 2o13 2o14 2o15 Asia and Australasia .  .  .  .  .  China .  .  .  .  .  Hong Kong .  .  .  .  .  India -.  .  .  .  .  Japan .  .  .  .  .  Source: PwC  2o12 Outlook for the Retaii and Consumer Products Sector  Asia Asia  FMCG market India  FMCG market Selected FMCG Trends  India Source: PwC analysis 3Defining innovation Different innovation types exist  serve different objectives: Breakthrough and radicai extend beyond the incrementai Incrementai innovation Smali changes  existing products and services via improvements  technology  changes  the business modei Typically    improvements  cost, performance  customer value . . speed, value, price Characterised  better, faster, cheaper products and services that  not drive above average revenue growth Breakthrough innovation Significant change  either the technologies  business models   product  service Based  entirely new components  technology  business modei  new ways  organise and use existing components Typically greater than  improvement  cost, performance  customer value Significant new competitive advantages that drive higher than average revenue growth Radicai innovation Substantiai changes  both technology and business modei New value  customer, new players  the value network and new technologies for making and delivering the product  service New basis  competition  existing markets . . new technology platform  cost basis , creates entirely new markets that provide customers with new value , creates very high revenue growth ratesSource: PwC  Innovation practice Source: PwC  Innovation practice  PwCInnovation  more than just launching new products The FMCG innovation imperative Innovation   wide concept which aside from creating, launching and marketing new products also includes improving shopping processes, providing consumers with  range  tools  purchase products  also ensuring that the entire organisation  focused  the singular goai  improving the customer  overali experience.  Indian consumers become more globai  their aspirations and desires,  they travei abroad and are exposed  globai products, their appetite  consume products  their home market wili only increase.  meet this demand, FMCG companies need  focus    and innovation   means  grow the business.  the same time, product lifecycles are shrinking, companies across categories  . , consumer durables and electronics are launching new products, and the pressure  market new products, quickly,  strong. Innovation   survivai tactic. Most FMCG CEOs believe that long-term demand and growth are significant  markets like India, Brazii, Russia, etc.  addition, the opportunity for FMCG products  large given that per capita consumption  India  lower than  most markets. The opportunity  terms  incrementai penetration and consumption  present. Most FMCG brands are rushing  design, create, test and launch new products  capture the attention  Indian consumers. Source: PwC  Innovation practice 5Health and wellness:  lifestyle change impacting the FMCG sector FMCG brands focused    and innovation   means  growth have  culture that promotes using customer insights  create either the next generation  products   some cases, new product categories. Not that creating the next big thing  easy. According   survey  Consumer Goods Technology and Sopheon Corporation, obstacles  the successfui development and launch  new consumer products can  found  the earliest stages  the innovation process. While most companies participating  the survey had little difficulty generating product ideas, less than   those ideas resulted  products considered   highly innovative. The remainder were product revisions, line extensions  promotionai ideas and packaging changes. One area that  see globai and locai FMCG brands investing   health and wellness. Health and wellness   mega trend shaping consumer preferences and shopping habits and FMCG brands are listening. Leading globai and Indian food and beverage brands have embraced this trend and are focused  creating new emerging brands  health and wellness. According  the PwC-FICCI report Winds  change: the wellness consumer, nutrition foods, beverages and supplements comprise  INR 145 billion  15o billion market  India, growing   CAGR    . Health and wellness brands are based  severai product propositions: Positively impact the consumers overali health Made with naturai ingredients,  artificiai preservatives Contain less sugar, cholesteroi, zero transfats, etc. Dairy-based and contain cultures with health benefits Baked instead  being deep-fried Infused with vitamins and nutrients Help minimise  reduce cholesteroi Product propositions  the FMCG food and beverage category: Good for you, healthier for you Source: PwC analysisSource: PwC-FICCI report Winds  change: the wellness consumer  PwCWhile there are severai products targeted  urban Indian consumers, the sweet spot lies  serving the 7oo million-strong group  consumers  rurai India. Opportunities abound  India  FMCG market given the high annuai growth rates and low penetration levels, across categories. For some categories, such  home care and personai care products, urban and rurai consumers wili have the same purchase drivers: Personai care:  makes  feei good  wear this lipstick,  buy skin cream  have soft skin, etc. Home care:   important  keep  home clean,  like  have  clean home since   house-proud, etc. That said, while FMCG marketers see the importance  strengthening their presence  urban areas, many are turning  rurai markets for the next wave  growth. FMCG marketers need  keep the following aspects  mind when serving rurai consumers: What are the right products that wili appeai  this target group? How can the products  better marketed using the right communication platforms . . self-help groups, plays, skits, etc. , etc.  order  tailor the key message? Which channels are the best  move products quickly . . agriculturai formats, online, -commerce? Our thought leadership report DNA modei for inclusive financiai services: Driving profitability indicates that  order  build  modei for  profitable business, banks have  become more inclusive  their approach towards consumers using the DNA modei.  feei that this perspective  also valuable and applicable  India  FMCG industry  consumer goods companies step  their efforts  serve this group  large and under-served consumers.  Different DNA New structures and new products Align partnerships Invest resources  devising  USP that  innovative and radically different. Don  approach under-served consumers  the same way you would approach target consumers: their needs vary! Offer under-served consumers  product which  new and transformationai. Determine the best way  source, create, procure, partner with and deliver the product  under-served consumers. Create strong distribution networks and skills  deliver  the last mile. Enter into partnerships that help you reach your market, such  those with farmers, self-help groups, microfinance, NGOs, etc. Source: PwC  DNA modei for inclusive financiai services: Driving profitability, PwC analysis 7China  India:  which market are FMCG brands more innovative? How does FMCG innovation differ between China and India? Innovation  China  occurring both  the B2B  weli  the B2C sphere. Most Chinese companies believe that innovation  criticai  the following: The ability  compete  overseas markets The longevity and continued growth  the company Remaining competitive and surviving market forces Related  producing innovative products  how  best retaii them  consumers. PwC  research  online shoppers globally suggests that Chinese consumers are willing  use the online channei   means  research and buy from. This   valuable insight that companies serving this market need  keep  mind,  they look  being innovative  not only the products they offer but how they  offered. PwC  Demystifying the online shopper:  myths  multichannei retailing,  survey  , ooo online interviews across  countries, reveals the following: Demographically, China  online consumers are the youngest and most employed .  Chinese consumers are young and relatively                                                       are aging and have shrinking purchasing power Chinese consumers have adopted the internet   retaii channei earlier than their globai peers Chinese consumers shop online more frequently than the globai average Chinese shoppers are ahead  the curve when  comes  using new devices and sociai media Source: PwC  Demystifying the online shopper:  myths  multichannei retailing Sample: Globai: , o67 online shoppers, China: 9oo online shoppers Note: Respondents who say they are shopping daily, weekly, monthly  less than once  month. Sample: Globai: , o67 online shoppers, China: 9oo online shoppers  PwCPerspectives  FMCG innovation Concluding comments FMCG CEOs challenges: Acquiring companies and stretch goals wili only get  organisation  far How   get  team  think about the next big game-changing innovation? Should  set     lab innovation celi? How much funding should  allocate  ? How   identify and hire the best talent?   need  reshape the organisationai culture  that  encourage breakthrough ideas and thinking, without instilling  fear  failure? Are  priorities for innovation and development clear? What kind  time  markets are reasonable for  large innovation?   need  convince the board  how imperative    focus  innovation? What kind   budget   have? What are the current pain points  time  market and how   reduce these? Source: PwC analysis India  FMCG market  mature, competitive, and crowded with locai and globai brands.  this market, innovation  criticai for: Market Remaining competitive Generating new avenues for sales and profits Driving growth  entering new categories through relevant innovation Increasing market share and moving towards market dominance positions : -Brand share -Overali FMCG market share -Category share Growing product and category penetration Consumer Creating products that match consumers evolving tastes, preferences and needs Reaching new customers Growing the share  wallet from current customers Product Launching new products and keeping the product portfolio fresh Channei Leveraging new distribution channels  boost revenue and penetration  . sociai media, multichannei, omnichannei Source: PwC analysis Source: NielsenDid you know that FMCG brand extensions www. pwc.  2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  455 - February 2o13 - . indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, IndiaAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc