Title: pwc_running-it-as-a-business
Date Published: 2013-12-13 14:08:56+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_running-it-as-a-business.pdf
Word Count: 11069
Sentence Count: 845
Average Sentence Length: 20.67

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
cloud: 220
business: 159
data: 149
wili: 129
pwc: 68
enterprise: 62
sociai: 60
big: 56
india: 56
service: 55
technologies: 54
computing: 51
mobile: 51
time: 49
also: 46
services: 45
development: 44
customer: 43
infrastructure: 43
security: 43

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Running    Business Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies www. pwc.  Contents Foreword  Sociai media  Mobility  Big data analytics p14 Cloud computing p24 CIO interviews p38  PwCForeword Effective technology, which can drive innovation    help enterprises meet the current challenges  the disruptive business environment, cannot exist  vacuum. Within his  her changing role,  CIO also has  collaborate with the other members  the -suite,  order  understand and analyse the risks and opportunities while developing  technology roadmap. The convergence  four technologies, namely sociai media, mobility, analytics and big data, and cloud computing SMAC, can potentially address the CIO  current needs. Though each  these technologies has  unique impact, they complement each other  foster innovation and enable business transformation through new ways  product development, customer service and interaction, and partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success.  addition  SMAC, the internet  things IoT and DevOps are amongst the other emerging technologies that the  world has  offer. While   pertinent that these emerging technologies wili impei innovation, enterprises wili have  develop  comprehensive strategy around the manner  which they wish  organise their innovation  weli  ways  achieve the best possible results from . This joint CII-PwC report covers the rising phenomenon  SMAC not from  what   perspective, but from  starting assumption  yes, SMAC wili  the backbone  enterprise   the future.  focuses  what CEOs, CIOs and CFOs should  beyond making  perform better.  also includes -depth interviews with notable CIOs who have provided their perspective  the adoption  these technologies. Varun Sood -Chairman, Nationai CIO Forum and Head Information TechnologyFortis Healthcare Group Rajesh Uppai -Chairman, Nationai CIO Forum and Executive Director CIO Maruti Suzuki India Ltd Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 3Introduction Changes  the current economic scenario and market structure are exposing businesses   host  uncertainties, and are pushing business leaders  think  newer ways  addressing problems and issues  hand,    stay ahead  the competition. Today,  chief information officer CIO must also   strategist, and focus  enterprise growth and profitability through innovation,  shift from the traditionai role  being responsible for business operations support and cost containment. With  aim  highlight this change  role and  focus  building  awareness  technologies  weli  policy compliances for the large and micro, smali and medium enterprises MSME, the Confederation  Indian Industry CII had set- the Nationai CIO Forum earlier this year. This forum intends  share the best practices and case studies  information technology  adoption, and formulate   Maturity Levei Framework for CII members across different industry verticals. This joint report  therefore  attempt  look into and analyse the transformationai role  the CIO  running    business, and the role emerging technologies can play  making organisations agile and adaptive within the current market scenario. Debdas Sen Executive Director PartnerRegionai Managing Partner East and Technology Consulting Leader PwC India  PwC Sociai media Reaping the rewards  sociai outreach Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 5Organisations are beginning  effectively use sociai media and other digitai avenues  get closer  their customers. Their numbers are growing and more are likely  follow suit  the competition for customers continues  heat . Sociai media  flourishing. Leading companies know that participation   longer  choice, but  requirement. Successfully entering into the realm  the sociai media requires adequate planning, resources and support. While sociai media need not replace face--face communication,  can  usefui  enhancing the overali customer experience  weli   creating new sales and servicing opportunities. Sociai media  offering organisations  scalable way  -create and engage with their customers. More importantly, sociai media   longer  emerging technology.  fact,  has arrived and  here  stay. While many individuals use sociai media   daily basis, the challenge for organisations and their leaders  that they may not know how  optimally utilise  for the benefit  the enterprise. Understanding the various applications  sociai media and how they can  used  achieve business benefits  the first step. Sociai media, when utilised weli, can create  collaborative dialogue with  very large, but very specific audience, one person   time. And,   successfui because  breaks down formai barriers.  provides  opportunity for instantaneous communication and promotes collaboration across functionai groups and geographic regions.  its most powerfui phase,  can bring out the fuli weight  millions behind identified ideas and actions within days.  anticipate customer needs and determine how  server them  the best possible way, majority  organisations today are investing  obtain better data  customer behaviours and needs,  weli  better analysis  the same data. The ultimate goai   improve customer experience. Line  sight Delivering the promise  sociai engagementSource: Sociai Customer Engagement Index 2o12,  Incite State  Sociai Customer Care 2o12, Satmetrix worldwide Study, May Sociai marketing Builds brand advocates and delivers better traffic, conversation and sales results than other vehicles Sociai customer care and support Delivers  better customer experience and drives down service costs, while capturing rich, expert content from both customers and trained agents  want word--mouth marketing for  product and services  want  create  deeper customer engagement and raise brand awareness  took the first step  sociai marketing presence. Now what?  want  measure and improve sociai presenceI want  attract more buyers and increase product sales and reduce costsWhat does the customer have  say about ? Sociai commerce Drives sales  using peer reviews and answers  attract more customers and increase buyer confidence Sociai innovation Crowd-source innovation  beat the competition and brings better products  market faster. Invite customers  share and debate the best ideas  PwCIn order  ensure sociai adaption  marketing success, having  place  marketing presence  the major sociai media platforms  not enough for  organisation.  sociai media usage has grown and matured, the impact  can have  brands, positive  negative,  enormous. Consider how the sociai media  used today: traditionai media uses sociai media   source for news stories, celebrities and individuals repost and retweet the posts that they like, customers post their service experiences and some even make videos and spoofs, messages now  virai resulting  instant wide, uncontrolled distribution.  some cases, regulators are even using consumer complaints  the sociai media  detect unlawfui practices. Unchecked, customer dissatisfaction issues that may have previously gone unnoticed become major disasters  the public realm. This possibility makes sociai media monitoring and management necessary  order  avoid any potentiai damage  the brand equity. Sociai intelligence takes  finer view  focussing  specific challenges involved  proactively using sociai media data  make better informed marketing and business decisions. Even before the explosion  sociai media customer data, companies struggled  leverage other forms  semi-structured and unstructured content, including cali notes, emaii text, and audio files. They neglected these sources  customer data, focussing instead  the more straightforward task  integrating their structured customer data. With the advent  sociai media, organisations with  strong brand identity began  address their customers online  searching related content. What does  enterprise hope  gain  listening  what  said about its organisation?  hopes  understand the consumer sentiments better  seeking the answers  the following questions: How does the customer feei about the organisation? Has the customer experienced any service problems?  this customer influencing other consumers? According  the PwC  5th Digitai  Survey 2o13, strong collaborators are four times more likely   the top performers than those with less collaborative leadership. Sociai media: CEOs are listening Strong collaborators expect sociai media  increase over the next  months54   CEOs say sociai media influences their business strategy Source: PwC  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey, 2o13 Source: PwC Digitai , 2o13Do you expect the usage  sociai media channei  your organisation for business purposes  increase, decrease  stay the same  the next  months? saying increase Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  Today, sociai media isn  edgy.   mainstream and   business. Alec Ross,  government Senior Advisor for Innovation,  March 2o12 Making the most  sociai media: What    for businesses? Eighty-two percent  the world  online population uses sociai media. According   PwC research, Demystifying the Online Shopper:  Myths  Multichannei Retailing, only   companies have invested  sociai media tools  order  understand their customers. Rather than merely making them pressing the obligatory like button  their web page and calling   day, private entrepreneuriai companies are seizing  sociai media  ability  get the closer  their customers. While any organisation, publicly listed  privately held, can utilise sociai media tools  serve this purpose, the latter  leading the process. Businesses have begun  realise the potentiai  sociai media.  tapped optimally,  can help improve their strategy, structure, processes, technology and people  harness the desired benefits. Many organisations  have  strong focus  their customers, which makes sociai media  naturai fit for them. Increasingly, organisations are adopting sociai media for marketing, internai collaboration,  , product development, communication, and . The most commonly used sociai platforms are Twitter, Facebook, Google, YouTube, blogs and other community forums. Severai industry leaders have adopted sociai media technologies and augmented their benefits. Verticals such  retaii and consumer goods, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, telecom, manufacturing, energy, transportation and education have benefitted from this shift. Their needs vary according  their nature. Businesses can unlock following aspects using sociai media: Brand awareness Customer retention and acquisition Customer care and service Marketing Product development Crisis management Internai and externai collaboration Recruiting Business process supportBroadening brand awareness Increasingly, online shoppers are discovering and following brands via sociai media     Discovered brands via sociai media Followed brands and retailers  sociai media Source: Demystifying the Online Shopper:  Myths  Multichannei Retailing, PwC, 2o13  PwC Mobility Rise  the use  mobile devices Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies    country like India, where mergers and acquisitions with industry giants from developed countries are frequent,   essentiai  transform the way Indian markets execute business operations. Consumers are  longer buying smartphones for basic communication. The technologicai landscape  evolving faster than ever. The utility  mobile devices has surpassed ali legendary predictions and has penetrated into almost every avenue  the world. Indian  weli  globai consumers are increasingly spending more time and money  digitai data consumption. With the advent  new mobile devices and platforms with advanced connectivity capabilities, accessing digitai content has become convenient. With  increasing per head income rate, consumers are increasingly switching  smartphones, with the smartphone sales beating the feature phone sales for the first time ever  the second quarter  2o13. What  enterprise mobility? Enterprise mobility enables the enterprise  support operations based  mobile devices and empowers the workforce with such devices    seamlessly execute their day--day activities. Why should  enterprise  mobile? Following are the reasons for  enterprise  embrace mobility: Access  criticai business data  reai-time Executing criticai business operations anywhere, anytime Edge over competition Contextuai information  the move Reaching out  mobile customers Location-specific information Remote business task execution Notifying and alerting specific business groups about criticai events How does mobility add value   business?  provides the business with contextuai intelligence. This  how  works: With the advent  new technology device capabilities, information gathered from users are contextuai Information gathered  intelligent   carries attributes such  geolocation, user activity, connectivity and availability Contextuai information enables contextuai intelligence with inputs from the user, device and the environment Pushing the precise and contextuai enterprise data   mobile user anywhere, anytime, transforms the way users execute their tasks What challenges are faced   enterprise implementing  mobile solution? The following challenges are faced  enterprises that are new  mobile implementation: How  identify the business processes that should  mobilised first  order  increase revenue and reduce cost? How  innovate around the workforce and consumers  enhance user experience? How  implement app distribution and device management  create  agile, compliant and secure mobile enterprise eco-system? What  the governance, risk and compliance  enterprise should care about, while mobilising their enterprise system?  the other hand, challenges faced  enterprises who have already initiated the process are  follows: Isolated mobile app implementations  certain segments  the enterprise Random development and enterprise system integration creates additionai complex service layers Insecure over-the-air data transmissions without implementing industry grade compliances Less intuitive  poorly designed apps and solutions These challenges are supposed   identified and fixed  the mobile service providers  the initiai design phase   mobile solution roli-out. This   phenomenai error made due  the lack  vision and without understanding the needs  the customer  customer: the end user.  invariable economic conditions, mobile OEMs have given the developer community and enterprises the power  create mobile apps  enhance business operations much faster for gaining  competitive edge.  PwCTransforming business with better user experienceDesign driven innovation  understand the changing user and market needs,   necessary  constantly improve upon the products, services  offerings. The recent introduction  smart devices helps  execute and get things done faster and better. The market adoption rate  technology has  different perspective  offer, wherein consumers require devices that provide them with  enhanced experience and make their lives easier.  the context   enterprise, the day--day activities  employees can  perfected  providing them with reai-time tools and applications  the move.  mobile application delivering instantaneous information from the cloud   example. How can there  value addition  the above instance?  understanding how  user needs data and what  the intended experience   created for that user  that particular environment and device. How   find this out?  see  strong need for innovation and  -depth understanding  the processes involved. This wili lead  new and improved ways  create everlasting end-user experiences. This simple design process   mixture  right-brained thinking and left-brained thoughts. Ali products are designed and created  serve  purpose,  you design  weli, you create  better. The ugly truth For instance, designing  mobile application for maintaining travei expenses   sales force app may sound simple, but  reality,    complex process. These applications are designed with functionai flow  mind which though enables  employee  achieve  task faster, does not provide him with any sense  accomplishment.  mobile device does give  lot  leverage over  desktop, but   leveraged  the most optimai levels  improve the business processes execution experience? While there can  lot  such basic scenarios analysed, enterprises today are not equipped with tools and insights  find these answers from their providers. Know your users and their intentions  advance Users can  customers, consumers, workforce   executive team, however, knowing the user and researching their needs wili help the business  understand what  user wants currently  weli   future. This thought leadership gap between the customer  need and  organisation  deliverables makes profitable growth  distant possibility. The quintessentiai innovation process The whole process  based  keen listening and observation. Every innovative product  solution  designed  serve  purpose. These two inputs along with  thorough knowledge about the transformation trends wili play key role  creating  innovative solution  product. Effective innovation entails the following five steps: Observe Empathise Define Ideate Build This design process  usually followed   sequence, but may vary  little depending upon the case. Consumers are increasing looking for  advanced user experience. Have you managed  make the necessary provisions? Most  the providers today get business process, supply chain, enterprise resource planning ERP and customer relationship management CRM enterprise applications installed  their smart devices. These are -creating the same functionai flow  your business process onto  smart device. This cannot  called transformation.  you think you know your customers, without extensive research and analysis results, you may have  think again. Experiencing the experience The digitai revolution has made our lives fast-paced.  majority  the population  the developed and the developing countries  utilising the latest technologies such  mobile phones, tablets, touch- enabled kiosks, smart watch, smart glass, proximity sensors, etc. These devices, when used effectively, become the transformation agents  our lives. Once  user likes  particular technology for its utility and service,  tends  use  more often and shares this experience with more people. This  what  called  complete cycle   successfully demonstrated user experience.   product development environment, user experience  ali about enhancing and encouraging  user with  new  modified experience  enjoy using  and getting better results.  satisfactory user experience  absolutely necessary for the success   product  service.  disgruntled consumer  highly unlikely  return  the same provider. These activities,  one way  the other are  part  most  our lives.  use one  more gadgets  applications  execute them.  lot  times   not even realise how dependent  have become  the convenience provided  these gadgets. There are companies which have made fortunes out  their understanding  the consumers needs and modifying their products accordingly. Companies that have not been able    have faced the consequence and realised the importance  this understanding  consumer behaviour. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 11Observe Observation  first part  the design process. The focus   observing current usage behaviours, system and user pain points, and purpose. The user  purpose for mobile app  observed, the current way  which they perform their activities and the inconvenience they face. This information  then collected and verified with user interviews. Tom Kelly, Partner  IDEO mentions that observation   the eye  the observe.  see what  have  see, when the observation  masked  various factors such  experience, knowledge, culture, education, emotions   observer.   not get  see details, instead the mind rushes for judgements with our pre- conceived thoughts and knowledge.   both, good  weli  bad. Outcomes Observation matrix mapped with the needs and wants  the system Current difficulties categorised  per user views Scope  the business case definition with identified challenges Empathise The name itself explains the objective  this step.   mobile app context, the user demographics and psychographics needs wili  accounted for and prioritised. Understanding the different types  users who wili  using the system wili  identified through the collected ethnographic parameters. This  where the desirability  the solution  measured and mapped along with the business purpose. Outcomes User ethnographic evaluation and user behaviours identification Business case - actors  the system identification Scope  user experience  the solution Redefining the problem statement Define This phase  ali about giving shape and structure  the collected information. User behaviours define their wants  weli  the missing pieces  the solution. Empathy analysis wili show the user engagement touch points  the user experience required  the actors  the system. Traditionai methods were derived  user roles, such  managers, sales executives, etc, but over time this did not turn out   equally productive.  this process, the business case finds the users and defines the experience for  customer, consumer,  employee   vendor. Outcomes Persona creation and defining behaviourai attributes  day  life scenario for the persona created Define business case: experience   system Measured benefits  business case with return  investment ROI and totai cost  ownership TCO metrics Ideate Ideation  where the solution  defined.  involves exploring concepts  solutions. Feasibility and viability  the system are constantly checked for ali solutions and ideas proposed  the team and mapped with the problem statement  the purpose. There are extensive collaborative sessions where concepts are evaluated and given shape  create business value. Shortlisted approaches are discussed with the industry experts and the users  record their reactions. The finai solution wili  mapped with user experience factors and simulated with quick prototyping  required. Outcomes Prototypes  check feasibility and viability Functionai requirements, and design documents for the building business case Solution approach and infrastructure specification Choice  technology, tools and devices Build This  the finai stage wherein the solution  executed. The solution can   complete implementation  proof--concept implementation depending  the executive management  cali. Testing iterations are always  part  this step and there are -iterations  required.  also includes constant feedback from the users via the toolkits available. User experience checks and tests are executed and the results are immediately fed into the production environment. Unlike traditionai software development methodologies, this development style should enable the engineering and design team with DevOps environment for better and quicker results. Outcomes World-class business case productised Quick test results  reactions from usersInnovation   ongoing process and fits best  case   enterprise   product and solution development company.  user demands change, experiences also tend  get better urging the service providers  constantly innovate. Users today  not need  generic solution any longer. They want  product   solution that can constantly   their disposai. Understanding the user sentiment wili hence play  key role  transforming business and winning over competition. How does the customer feei about the organisation? Has the customer experienced any service problems?  this customer influencing other consumers?  PwCRising threats: Have you secured your enterprise data? When the workforce  mobile savvy, the enterprise data goes mobile,  can  easily accessed anywhere, anytime. Presently, mobile devices are equipped with high speed network connectivity, and   easy  stream  video through   connection. However,  this data secure? While data transfers and data consumption are proportionally increasing, the workforce tends  consume the enterprise data more than usuai. They may end  accessing enterprise data unintentionally over  insecure - connection  coffee bar. This may lead  confidentiai data getting leaked into the public domain. Enterprise data and user behaviour Mobile workforce  the next generation workforce. Mobile technologies have evolved faster that anyone ever anticipated. Users,  most cases, are not yet aware  the consequences  basic security mishaps. There are  lot  incidents that knowingly  unknowingly happen and even large corporations have been victims  data theft. The good Mobile users prefer  use their personai devices for officiai purposes. Mobiles and tablets, when secured, can   good replacement for laptops and desktops. Sales and customer facing professionals can access enterprise data anywhere, anytime. Delivery agents can securely connect  enterprise systems for payment processing  digitai signature submission.   good  have your workforce connected through mobiles, but   important  ensure that these transactions are kept safe. Industries are already moving towards mobiles, which  uncontrolled, can turn out    disaster. The bad Mobile apps  not follow basic compliance while transmitting enterprise data, thus resulting  leakages Mobile users access restricted websites via corporate - Mobile users use blacklisted apps inside office network Mobile apps save enterprise data locally  the device  the physicai memory unit unencrypted Mobile users accessing officiai emails from open  insecure public networks The ugly Mobile users often leave their devices unattended  unlocked  public  accessible locations Stolen devices that are loaded with corporate data without  pass-code protection enabled are  major threat Users unintentionally forward  business criticai document  personai emaii addresses Enterprise applications transmit payments  customer signatures over insecure networks These errors are due   flaw  design  the lack  knowledge and awareness. There   clear indication that employees are interested  execute almost ali their day--day activities  their mobiles  tablets. This requires enterprises  take extra precautionary measures against data theft.   not just about securing data  the air, securing enterprise data while  the device  equally important. Computer Tablet Smartphones Source: Usage  mobile tablet devices   typicai week2Usage  mobiles and tablets   typicai week Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 13The rise  mobile device management solutions After personai computers transitioned  the 9os, and networked enterprise grade computers arrived, there was  clear forecast  the possible threats posed   connected environment that had access  enterprise data. This  when originai equipment manufacturers OEMs and software application providers came with advanced capabilities such  network administration applications with policy-based access controi tools. However today, given our experience  technology and threats  the past,  are able  foresee security threats  the future. This  when  weli-defined mobile management and administration applications, also known  mobile device management MDM solutions were developed. Mobile OEMs are already bringing  enterprise-specific features within their device platforms. MDM solutions are the future need   enterprise  order  safeguard enterprise data. Now, with the advent  mobile platforms, and with new devices emerging almost every week from various OEMs, the market  already fragmented. Taking enterprise applications  mobile devices and managing ali devices for compliance and security should strike  balance. Today, while enterprises feei that bringing  their own device policies are  best-fit solution and reduce ownership costs,   equally important  secure the fragmented devices used  employees. Traditionai   not equipped with tools  handle this transition, and with the advent  MDM solutions this scenario wili keep changing over time.  India, there are enterprises stili evaluating  thinking  deploying MDM solutions. However, western industries  weli  enterprises are already making investments  device management solutions. These are proven solutions and the need  the hour.  India while aspiring for internationai business standards,  also need the right tools and solutions  place. While there are many MDM solutions available  the market,   important  analyse what wili work best for  enterprise  current and future needs.  have  cloud-based MDM solution   optimai choice, since most  the solutions  not capture enterprise data. There are solutions which disclose the data capturing policy upfront. Ali data captured has   reviewed before implementation. Benefits  cloud-based MDM solutions are  follows: Reduced deployment and roli-out costs  extensive licencing costs. , one can choose wisely and pay per device  simple --yourself platform  enroi user device Easy  understand self  assisted service portai for better configuration and policy roli-outs Zero-day availability  updates for new device platforms Shortly, there wili   environment for developed  weli  developing nations  have  equai and fair chance  improve and compete  business. Technology wili  the key transforming agents within this business environment. There are smart devices emerging and  whole gamut  connected devices and machines capable  communicating with other machines  humans. These devices can also exhibit threats  enterprises, however,   about taking proactive preventive measures  safeguard the environment. MDM  the first step towards this journey. Employee buys mobile devices and   pre-installed  sellers  team purchases hardware, , anti-virus, firewali and data encryption software licencesThe MDM solution pushes the policies OTA and secures enterprise data  team installs  updates enterprise policies and software periodicallyEmployee gets  emaii  sms from the MDM solution and   she enrolls with the MDM solution  team installs  pre- configures   patches  assigns  laptop  desktop Employee installs  upgrades his  her  and apps Dedicated  team  support laptop ordesktop usersEnterprise : Employee association timeline Increased TCOReduced TCO Asset management overheadsReduced  maintenance cost High  maintenance time and costIncreased  productivity Increased TCOImproved employee satisfaction Enterprise : Employee association timelineEnterprise : Employee association timeline  PwC Big data analytics Fact  fiction Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 15Increasingly, companies have discovered ways  which big data can provide deeper insights that drive innovation, strategy, new product development  weli  customer relationships. Big data insights can inform  weli  change  single business decision,  company  strategy and business modei  even  entire industry.   not  technology- driven change rather    business-driven approach facilitated  technology. Capitalising  this opportunity begins with understanding the needs and goals   organisation and the potentiai that new data can bring  improve the decision-making procedure. Traditionai data- driven strategies based  analytics have mostly been performed  the aggregate levei  areas such  marketing studies, customer segmentation, driver trees, etc.   evident that organisations are generating  lot more data, but for most part, data  discarded unless  can  readily analysed. However, with big data, the cost per terabyte   storing such data comes down. With improved cycle times through big data, and with additionai sophisticated models, companies can build faster and potentially cost-effective solutions  serve data and information  the business consumers who are increasingly aware  changes  technology. Companies are finding  difficult  kick-start big data projects partially because  the myths and misconceptions surrounding big data. FictionIt   replacement for the current  platform   only needed for massive data setsIt  only available from the open-source communityIt  only used for unstructured dataIt  only used for customer analyticsFact  see big data being complimentary  existing business intelligence investments. The analyticai techniques used for big data analytics are equally applicable with smaller data sets. There are plenty  major vendors throwing their weight behind commerciai big data offerings. Big data tools and technologies can cope with  wide variety  structured and unstructured data. Big data has been used for  wide variety  applications ranging from customer analytics through  search engines and  operations. However,  can  seen   disruption  established information management strategies and requires thinking  analyse the ways  which  can  best deployed  coexist with the current  investments. Big data provides  architecturai blueprint for storing and analysing large amounts  diverse data. However, these same vendors are lining  behind  few, leading open source players.  can handle mountains  structured data generated  web apps, machines, sensors and enables enterprises  perform analysis  them reai-time. Some  the recent areas for big data usage are  security analytics, fraud prevention, operations analytics, risk analysis and predictive analytics, etc.  PwCEnterprises seek  use new sources and varieties  data  gain strategic insight, increase innovation, create new products and services and improve operations across the organisation. Big data holds the promise  deliver insight and intelligence when and where   needed  order  make and implement both strategic  weli operationai decisions faster, smarter and more effectively. The barrier Companies are challenged   where  start  order  realise the promise  big data. Faced with the complexity  vast and varied sources  new data, companies often delay the exploration  big data due   lack  the following: Business justification Access  necessary technologies Access  necessary talent and skili sets Understanding possible changes  information systems, architectures, people  weli  processes that may  necessary  realise the benefits  big data The solution Initiai exploration  big data need not require large investments  time  resources.  effective pilot wili provide the direction necessary  determine where  make incrementai investments.  selected big data pilots mature into fuli initiatives, changes wili  necessary  people, processes  weli  technologies. However, with  clearly articulated big data strategy, investment levels, costs and benefits can  defined and managed effectively.  effectively designed and executed big data pilot can quickly and cost-effectively demonstrate the potentiai  big data and guide the development  the business case  further invest  and implement sustainable big data solutions.  many cases, pilots provide direct  weli  immediate insights into pressing business issues, and this result  changes  avenues such  strategy, increased innovation and improved operations. Managing the pilot project may vary depending  the business use case and the organisation profile, but the approach for the big data pilot project  fairly standardised. Key steps involved  the successfui implementation   big data pilot project are  follows: Definition  business use case Identification  the pilot project team Design and implementation  the analytics solution Visualisation  the results Measurement  totai cost  ownership TCO and return  investment ROI Business value proposition Development  expansion plan Getting -board with big data Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey1 provides insights into what companies are actually doing with big data today Opportunities Challenges Almost two-thirds  agreed that big data can give the organisation  competitive advantage Forty-eight per cent  respondents report actively integrating third-party data into existing internai data sources Fifty-eight per cent report that transitioning from data  insight   major challenge Forty-one per cent indicate that their current systems cannot process large volumes  data from different sources Twenty-five per cent indicate that they lack  sufficient pipeline  talent  undertake  deep analysis  big data India and globai scenario2  big data adoption Indian organisations are realising the importance  big data. Our survey results indicate that around every two out  three The survey also summarises insights gathered after meeting executives from many leading companies. Certain selected companies have moved big data initiatives beyond  pilot stage after conducting exploratory pilots  areas such  improved understanding  customer preferences and experience, identification  untapped revenue opportunities and improved operationai efficiency.  what extent  you agree  disagree with the following statement Harnessing big data wili give  organisation  competitive edge Rest  the world- -   India - -   Strongly disagree Disagree Agree Agree strongly Don  know However, our common observation  that  large percentage  companies are actively pursuing methodologies which wili help them explore ways  which  apply big data through pilot initiatives. These companies are actively exploring big data pilot projects and are seeking  identify the business challenges and issues that lend themselves   big data pilot and proof  concept. respondents  India believe that harnessing big data wili give their organisations  competitive edge. This figure  more than the  , the   and the globai average .  The PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey was conducted  September and October  2o12 and surveyed , 1o8 senior executives globally  PwC  5th Annuai Digitai  Survey - The India Story, May 2o13  PwCInternet  things and big data The term, the internet  things IoT refers   situation where objects  devices that are connected together and exchange data with each other, without any intervention such  machine--machine M2M communication. For example,  wearable wrist band connecting  the smartphone through bluetooth technology and uploading the steps count while exercising, calories burnt and sleeping patterns data. Today, the IoT revolution  fuelled  the low-cost sensors, ubiquitous connectivity and common development platform that allow any devices  connect  the internet. Such smart devices have been brought  the consumer market   large extent only  past couple  years, however such devices existed  the other segments such  manufacturing, healthcare, aviation, retaii, transportation and logistics for  long time. They have always been generating data  large volumes and  high velocity. However, not ali data was processed  utilised  generate intelligence due  the lack   system that can really handle ali  that data. For  instance, radio frequency identification RFID technology has been  the market for few decades. Untii recently,  was mainly used  the asset management, inventory controi, shipping and receiving area. Areas such  production tracking, usage patterns and compliance were considered  nice-- have features. However, with the advent  the big data technology, enterprises are increasingly leveraging the big data  process ali  the data generated  the devices and bring out the valuable insights that they were never been able  uncover. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 19Key characteristics  big data technologies such  massive parallelisation and rapid scalability allows enterprises  process stream  data from the IoT and transform them from data  information  intelligence   lower cost. With companies now being able  rent processing power from the cloud   pay-per-use modei, they can deploy more sensors  generate additionai data and process not only the existing high volume, velocity, variety and veracity data but also similar data from newer IoT. Companies wili understand their enterprise better and increase the utilisation and effectiveness  their resources which wili open- doors for growth, innovation and business opportunities. When companies have better tools and more cycle time, data scientists wili  able  seek larger data sets and iterate more  order  refine their questions and find better answers. Visualisation capabilities and more intuitive user interfaces wili make  least the basic exploration possible for vast majority  the people  the workforce.  then, visualisation and user interface improvements wili make  possible  spread  hoc analytics capabilities across the workplace  every user role.  the same time, data scientists, people with  creative ability  generate usefui hypotheses  simulate and modei  business have never been  more demand. Tight integration between big data and IoT means that companies can avoid difficult situations which mostly occur due  the lack  information and the ability  predict the occurrence   event. With the help  IoT and big data, businesses wili  able  track usage patterns, and plan accordingly, not only for spikes, but also for quite periods  weli, thus increasing the operationai efficiency.  reap the benefits  IoT, companies wili have  make  host  changes, both technicai  weli  culturai within the organisation. Shortly, IoT wili become mainstream and when that happens early adopters wili  able stay ahead  the curve and the followers wili  left behind  catch  with their competitors. Big Data technologies Better access  resultsMore data sources  broader culture  inquiry, increased awareness and better decisions Better growth, innovation and new business opportunitiesMore focus  key metrics How big data affects IoT adoption for  enterprise  PwCHow  get value out  IoT? After big data, IoT  the next buzz word that  generating  huge amount  attention  many industries today. Considering the amount  traction   gaining  many leading companies,   hard  ignore the fact that  are about  witness the rapid evolution  IoT. IoT projects are able  secure investments  many leading companies because information  stili navigating through traditionai routes such  manuai entries, extract, transform and load ETL tools and databases, management reports, batch crawlers, and sometimes even one-off purchased data from suppliers. Such methods are sluggish and inefficient for today  rapidly growing information world. Supported  these traditionai methods and systems, companies are unable  keep  with the rate  which trends are evolving these days.  large number  companies are taking IoT beyond the experiment phase, and generating reai value out  IoT. Many products manufactures have either built  building new business models that wili generate revenue even after devices leave the store shelves. Most  which are through service platforms which are capable  performing subscriber service, integrated development environment, application programming interfaces APIs for sharing information, cloud data storage, device management, analytics, security and privacy. This post-transaction relationship reinvents the engagement with customers  reaching beyond the transaction and focuses  helping customers achieve the personai goals they buy the product for. IoT makes this approach possible with the help  set  emerging technologies such  wireless communications, cloud-based processing, sensors, embeddable computers, and reai time big data analytics. Allstate insurance company Insurance providers have been experimenting with the computer device for the car that monitors customers driving behaviour and reports  back  the provider over  wireless network. The providers use data  adjust insurance rates based  the driving behaviour patterns. Adoption  this telematics technology  relatively slow  the insurance industry because  its post-incident feedback nature. Currently, Allstate Insurance  exploring  more active approach which  reai-time feedback  help drivers become safer.  safer driver gets  lower premium and becomes less   risk, which means fewer payouts  Allstate. Whenever the driver makes  risky move, the device can give immediate feedback using  glowing red light  the dashboard   sound that says, That was  risky move.  the trials  the usage-based telematics product with Allstate employees,  initially scored  the safe zone, but over the course  the test, that figure rose   .  the long run, insurance companies that really use telematics successfully wili use   change their customers exposure  loss. - Fred Cripe, former executive, vice president  Allstate insurance company.  Allstate Insurance, Allstate announces crowd sourcing effort  test usage-based insurance product, news release, July , 2o12. The value businesses receive   deeper relationship with and advocacy from the customers Trust Achieves Achieves Personai goals Consumption dataBusiness goals: Monetisable customer advocacy Personalised, augmented, enhanced value The customer The company Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  With the granularity  the information  collect,  have  much richer understanding  the health  the machine and can diagnose much more accurately. - Jim Ingrassia,   the vice president  the solutions support division  Konica Minolta. Konica Minolta For about  decade, Konica Minolta has been using digitised consumption  its copiers   means  improve products, services, and overali value. Originally, they developed remote monitoring capability  provide feedback for product engineering and research and development. Remote monitoring allows the engineers  remotely see every signai  the machine. They can detect low voltages, internai jams, and faulty signals  PCBs, and everything happening  the machine - periodically   demand. Although developed for engineering and design purposes, that capability has led Konica Minolta  find other ways  use . Today, they use remote monitoring  enhance their services and their support for their products  their channei partners and end customers. They were able  build significant value-added capabilities with the remote monitoring feature. Today, they offer these capabilities  empower around , ooo  , ooo technicians  the .  going beyond the transaction with its copiers, Konica Minolta improves product designs and makes post-sales support easier  customers and more profitable for the company. Konica Minolta has  highly configurable system for collecting consumption data directly from copiers. End- customers experience fewer problems, faster service, and improved satisfaction. Konica Minolta gains insight into the following areas: Usage patterns Proactive alerts  potentiai issues that produce fewer service calls Additionai efficient stockpiling Better information  product vulnerabilities and defects Appropriate changes  new units that reduce future service costs. Ali  this data improves Konica Minolta  overali processes.  PwC Studio Roosegarde Daan Roosegaarde,  artist, inventor, and entrepreneur whose Studio Roosegaarde consults  interactive design for human space has done severai projects that use digitai technologies  provide integrated seamless experiences across physicai and digitai domains.  has proposed reimagining the highway design   way that exemplifies the concept   augmented experience.  notes that billions  dollars are spent  make cars smarter, but not the roads that they travei.  questioned the need  use sensors  highways many already have them for traffic monitoring and the detection  hazardous materials  interact more intelligently with drivers, based  locai conditions. The Smart Highway concept  proposes using signs that are painted  the roads and appear only below  certain temperature  display warnings about icy conditions,  that are connected  wind sensors  display only during high winds. When these warnings appear  static year-round signs, they are more likely   ignored. Lane markers, such  those designating carpooi lanes  express lanes that skip some exits, could also  made digitai,  they change with traffic flow and volume. They could  made with photosensitive materials that keep them lit  night and charged via solar power during the day. Streetlights can have detectors  that they turn  only when cars are nearby. The Oaks  the Oaks,  senior care facility  Orangeburg, South Carolina, semi- independent patients living  care facility settings  residentiai home settings are monitored with - connected sensors  practitioners can see  someone  immobile for  worrying length  time which could indicate  fali  fainting speli,   they are moving around  the night, suggesting they are not sleeping. Such assisted care facilities have long had buzzers that patients use  cali for help, and their staffs have regularly performed -person check-ins, but the connected sensors give the facility more immediate context and patterns that can reveai unknown problems. There are many potentiai goals for such  service. One  them   prevent emergencies.  use this technology  try  predict something before  happens, says James McGee, President and CEO  the Oaks. The direct benefits  the resident are obvious: better, smarter care. The facility  also digitising the consumption  services  rethink the business process behind  service healthcare,  this case   proactive, preventive service rather than  reactionary, crisis oriented one.  For more information, see http: www. studioroosegaarde. net project smart-highway photo smart-highway Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  Conclusion With relatively faster adoption  IoT supported  continuing reduction  the size and price  sensors, and the ability  network every device  propelling companies  fully engage with customers, going beyond transactions,  goai oriented, post-transaction relationships. Digitisation  consumption and the convergence  the physicai and digitai worlds are creating opportunities  turn single transactions into long standing relationships. The convergence  the physicai world with the digitai world wili put stress  other parts  business and  operations.  particular,  wili increase the burden  data storage, tagging, management, and analysis and related activities. Solutions emerging from mobile and sociai technologies and big data analytics wili address some  these issues. Finally, the businesses that fuse digitised consumption with  augmented experience  the service  the customer  personai goals wili find  new levei  success.  PwC Cloud computing Get your cloud strategy right Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  Cloud computing has moved from  hype   must-have service modei.  2o13, this phenomenon has seen  burst  new services, products, companies  weli  entrepreneurs.  promises lower upfront costs, greater business agility, rapid scalability and  reduced burden  the internai  management. Therefore, CIOs  severai medium and large enterprises are now adding cloud-based solutions  their existing  services. However, before they can fully-leverage the benefits  cloud technologies, they need  understand the organisationai impacts  this move. Moving the infrastructure  the cloud  not   change, but  transformationai change which needs   assessed across strategy, structure, people, process and technology.  the  landscape undergoes rapid changes,  might become even more complex  the short-term. This  turn can create significant integration and operationai challenges which need   effectively managed. Though cloud computing brings  business and financiai benefits,  also requires   addressed from  business strategy, finance, compliance, tax, enterprise architecture and most importantly culturai point  view. What  becoming evident  many enterprises  most CIO and chief technology officers CTOs have come out  the learning phase  adopt  cloud strategy with  three  five year roadmap  refresh the enterprise application and infrastructure. However, some  the questions that immediately come  are  follows:   rapidly changing technology landscape should enterprises look   short-term around -months roadmap compared   long-term around three years roadmap? Does the cloud strategy address some key functions such  business   strategy, finance, compliance, tax, culture and enterprise architecture? The right recipe for  successfui cloud strategy   define the assessment areas, use the right tools and apply the appropriate methodology. Cloud computing  now less about technology and more about business strategy.  PwCExecutive concernAs businesses begin formulating  cloud strategy, some  the key considerations for the -suite are  follows: Considerations for the chief executive officer CEO How can cloud help generate new sources  revenue and bolster our competitive standing? How  you need  rethink innovation   world where cloud infrastructures create instant environments  try new ideas? What transformations could your business undergo with the help  cloud solutions? Considerations for the chief financiai officer CFO How wili cloud impact cost structures and data governance? Are you accounting for how cloud can impact your revenue modei  tax structure? How  you analyse and benchmark current  costs, and how wili you benchmark internai  effectiveness against externai cloud providers? What are the implications  moving  externai clouds from the accounting and tax management perspective? Considerations for the chief information officer CIO What new business opportunities wili deliver the best return  our cloud investments? Have you developed  strategy for helping business unit leaders use cloud services without creating security  compliance risks? Which  the CEO  strategic imperatives can cloud solutions help right away?  you have  roadmap  evaluate and deploy the cloud infrastructure, public, private  hybrid? Considerations for the chief operating officer COO How are  going  address the challenges  near infinite scalability and highly variable demand? How can cloud-based solutions benefit development teams from product initiation  delivery? How are competitors using the cloud  enhance their offerings? Considerations for the chief human resource officer CHRO How can cloud computing reduce human capitai management costs and become  engine for growth?  your organisation moves  the cloud, how wili you support the need for new customer service, technicai and marketing skili sets? How can cloud tools transform attracting, recruiting, training, evaluating and retaining employees? Considerations for the chief compliance officer CCO   see  increase  cloud adoption across the organisation, how are employees keeping  with various compliance requirements? How wili our data  protected? What security assurances does the service provider offer? Does our risk management system address cyber-risks that can deraii  new technology-enabled business strategy? How wili data governance, risk compliance, tax and regulatory issues  handled   cloud environment? Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 27Cloud strategyaIn the past year, cloud computing had gained enough traction and has featured  almost every board room discussion. There   great deai  expectation for cloud computing  deliver the business value and  the same time reduce costs. Enterprises especially  the past two years has tasted moderate  high success   whether   subscribing  cloud services  deploying cloud enabled products. They have now started asking complicated questions such  the following: How can  integrate SaaS applications across multiple providers? How can  leverage low-cost storage for storing archive data? Which framework wili help   characterise workloads and place them across public and private clouds? How can  leverage and scale  cloud  launch the next generation mobility, sociai and analytics solutions? Stages  cloud strategy formulation Opportunities from workshops and assessment  current stateOpportunities from impact analysis and high-levei - TOM development PwC  assessment and  valuation methodologiesData collection and discussionsInitiai business case PwC  cloud adoption strategy High- evei TOMStrategic roadmap StrategyAssessment Trends  Cloud computing gets strategic, PwC view issue   PwCEssentially, businesses have now transitioned from how  what with regard  selection and use  cloud services. With consumerisation  , rapid growth  mobile computing devices and increased availability  cloud based services  support new technologies, business are feeling empowered  test new solutions.  departments need  move fast enough before businesses start procuring and consuming cloud services.  addition  this governance  ali these services wili lead  even more complications. Though cloud  transforming the  landscape, enterprises are realising that   more than that. They perceive cloud computing   engine for business growth.  providing the freedom  use  plethora  services, simplified management, unlimited resources, rapid service provisioning cloud computing can provide  strategic role for the businesses. Cloud allows business  say yes more often than not.  enables enterprises  focus  innovation  converting ideas into products  solutions  providing  platform where the cost  failure  minimai. Cloud also provides the ability  rapid service provisioning such  catering  the holiday shopping traffic for  website, providing seamless service integration during mergers and acquisitions    integrating applications across two businesses. Situation such  these can induce complexity  the environment. With this cloud computing brings  and business close  each other and become  true business enabler.  its objective  bring the synergies   and business together enterprises need  create  comprehensive business strategy for cloud computing. Created for the business and not just for the CIO  CTO, the strategy needs  clearly articulate how cloud computing can support the business and enable them  take informed decisions. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 29How does cloud affect key business areas? Strategy Cloud computing has now become  news lens through which business considerations are viewed. For example,  start- company can subscribe  cloud services and rapidly roli-out  app which might find quick acceptance with severai thousand users when compared   existing paid app already  the same marketplace.  such cases, supply, demand, competitiveness are constantly challenged, and  more enterprises move into this zone the framework involved  creating the traditionai strategy become irrelevant giving rise   agile way  solving problems. The strategy for the business needs   nimble. Businesses now need  view strategy through the lens  cloud computing and   important that the strategy and the vision are  sync with each other. Finance Cloud computing wili have  impact  finance functions such  financiai planning and management, budgeting, governance and risk management. One  the key changes wili   the evaluation  the TCO between the cloud modei and the traditionai modei. With CFOs considerably influencing  investments, key attributes like depreciation, cashflow, differentiai savings, Net present value NPV, pay back period and return  investment are being given   depth treatment. The financiai calculations gets  little more complicated where  business has implemented  private cloud  leasing hardware and software from  service provider.  this case there are bound   questions  financing the investment, billing modei  the provider and charge back  the business  its departments.  ali cases for any initiative  cloud  clear financiai value proposition holds the key. Security Businesses are increasingly inter- connected, integrated, and interdependent. Technologies such  cloud, mobility and bring-your-own-device BYOD are enabled even before  security strategy  place. Such  evolved business eco-system also imperils organisations  putting them  the mercy  adversaries who are likely  exploit these technologies and processes  disrupt operations and even destroy businesses.   result, security threats have become  criticai business risk  globai organisations.  the recent PwC Globai State  Information Security Survey 2o14,  was found about   respondents use some form  cloud computing,  healthy gain   from the year before. Among those who use cloud services,   respondents report that their security posture has improved. Hence,   surprising  learn that many organisations have not seriously addressed the security implications  cloud services. According  the survey, respondents that used cloud services, only  say they have policies governing the use  cloud. With the rapid growth  cloud computing, the 2o14 survey gauged the respondent  priorities  preparing for threats across five key categories.  depicts the safeguards that are not  place must   priority over the next  months. This shows that technology investments precede the foundationai security strategy. Lack  policies for cloud computing represents  serious security gap for businesses. The proliferation  data being shared,  combination with the increase  the use  mobile devices, creates  environment  which cloud services are more widely used and potentially abused  employees.  the same time,   essentiai that businesses ensure that the third-party cloud providers agree  follow security practices. Joshua McKibben, PwC Director.  PwCCompliance Cloud computing provides business and financiai benefits but  requires organisations  cede controi   third-party cloud service provider for risk mitigation and management. When  organisation subscribes  cloud services, the controls  the cloud service provider wili effectively  the controi  the organisation which  turn must fit with the existing defined controls.  regulated industries such  healthcare and financiai services there are specific compliance and governance requirements.   vitai that there   clear understanding  the regulator and agency, compliance, law and standards that needs   adhered for the cloud deployment and service models.   important  identify the right cloud service provider that wili help the organisation realise its objective while reducing risk and providing the required trust and transparency. Companies that  business  the cloud remain concerned about security, and are raising their eyebrows about service availability and data privacy. These are making business decisions based  the cloud providers ability  provide  secure, stable environment and   lower cost. Cloud providers, security vendors, integrators, and consultants ali have  important role  play  meet the increasingly rigorous needs  their customers, industry groups, and regulators . Tax  Using  cloud particular cloud deployment  service modei can have different tax consequences. For example,  business hosting  private cloud  its own premise versus hosting its private cloud   service provider location leased hardware  own hardware can have different tax considerations. With PaaS and SaaS service models, tax considerations can get  complicated. From  cloud provider  perspective they face materiai income tax  indirect tax implications depending  the cloud infrastructure and type  revenue modei employed. Based  the nature  cloud service and deployment models  can give rise  internationai tax jurisdiction issues. Cloud purchasers can encounter unforeseen and  times significant income and sales tax variations, depending  the type  cloud services they have contracted for.  the quest  achieve these tax benefits, its related implications are often overlooked  ignored  many businesses thereby resulting  unintended consequences.   therefore recommended  conduct  proper analysis before subscribing  cloud services and these needs   done before implementing the cloud strategy. Culture  any organisation, technology adoption happens ali the time  some form  other and therefore,  consistent process  the key  enabling people  successfully adopt and use technology.   recent internai research, PwC gathered the following insights: Managing expectations, anxiety and insecurity, communication and engaging teams are criticai success factors Eight out   technology implementations faii due  lack  effective change management Nine out   significant barriers  achieving successfui change are  the people and softer issues Cloud computing brings   transformationai change and   criticai that the change  embedded and sustained  the organisation and  that  happen, culture holds paramount importance. Finai thoughts Cloud computing has transformed the way  which  services are delivered  the business.  has transformed from  cooi technology   mainstream technology thereby delivering significant financiai and business benefits  implemented  the right way.   cloud computing part  your business strategy? You can  fight today  threats with yesterday  strategies Gary Loveland, principai  PwC  security practice  PwC thought leadership titled protecting your brand  the cloud - Transparency and trust through enhanced reporting, November 2o11  Reference: PwC thought leadership titled How does one tax the cloud? , January 2o12 Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 31Investment plans around cloud Investment trends  cloud computing Source: PwC  5th Digitai  Survey    oPublic cloud infrastructure Public cloud applications Public cloud Americas Europe Asia-PacificIn 2o13,   India  CEOs are planning cuts. Source: 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaFuture  ERPCEOs are looking  counter growth elated threats  balancing efficiency with agility. Cost restructuring continues   high  the agenda. However businesses are instead trying  cut costs without cutting value.  such times, speeding the adoption  key technologies such  sociai networks, mobile computing, analytics, cloud computing SMAC and other emerging technologies wili transform businesses, accelerate wealth creation and help achieve the core objectives  fostering growth, meeting disparate consumer needs, reaching out  markets,  order  compete and succeed. With cloud computing, businesses are able  avaii almost infinite compute power, storage and network   pay--you- modei, without having  invest  any hardware upfront. Apart from infrastructure, cloud also provides cost-effective testing  weli  development platforms, backup  weli  applications. How long  wili  before enterprise resource planning ERP systems begin  exploit the fuli benefits  the cloud? More importantly,  cloud ERP  one-size-fit-ali solution for ali type  enterprises? PwC  5th Digitai  Survey also revealed that the major reasons for investment into cloud computing include increased productivity, increased innovation and reduced costs. Americas Europe Asia-Pacific54   oPublic cloud infrastructure Public cloud applications Public cloud  PwCWinds  change Non-core business processes such  customer relationship management CRM and human resources   payroli have reached  high maturity levei  terms  cloud adoption.  the other hand, core business processes such  financiai management, supply chain, production planning, scheduling, etc have been slow  adopt cloud. However, business environments are now gearing  for  change. Most  them have either indicated high levels  interest  have  least started  consider the option  cloud for ERP. -premise ERP:  challenge Enterprises need ERP systems  order  manage day--day operations. Today, most ERP systems offer  fuli range  solutions, catering  every aspect  the business. Hence,  makes more sense for  enterprise  create  disaster recovery  set- for ERP systems. However, one  the major concerns facing enterprises today  the overali infrastructure and operationai costs  -premise ERP production and secondary environments. Implementing and maintaining  -premise  for the ERP system adds  cost,   implies managing other systems, that may  may not  used  ali, but are criticai for business. Millions  dollars are spent  the implementation, ongoing support and the operations  ERP systems. Business challengesOperationai challenges Low agility  traditionai  service delivery  order  meet the changing business demandsConsiderable costs incurred  the maintenance and the support  the ERP infrastructure Forty   year--year growth  enterprise dataNeed for reliable and cost-effective backup and disaster recovery options Ever-changing compliance and regulatory landscapeInefficient service levei agreements  weli  operationai inefficiencies, thereby reducing performance Solution lies  the cloud With  sound cloud business platform  place, enterprises can innovate around new products  weli  services  order  generate additionai sources  revenue Regardless  whether  IaaS modei with  public  private cloud   SaaS-based modei  being used,  enterprise can transform  departments, streamline and scale operations and fuei innovation.  cloud- based ERP strategy enables reduced procurement costs  weli  effort  non-core areas  maintenance, continuous upgrade and support. Cloud adoption drivers Cost reduction seems   the major driver for cloud adoption followed  increased productivity and innovation. Twenty-five per cent  companies worldwide feei that the adoption  cloud helps reduce cost. Twenty per cent feei that cloud adoption wili fuei innovation and increase productivity. Source: PwC  5th Digitai  Survey Cloud  shaping  the ERP providers market Various signs prevailing  the current business landscape are indicative  the changing ERP market. NetSuite has released its cloud-based software--- service integrated business management software. Other newer ERP players such  Workday, Plex Systems, Infor and Epicor, etc have entered the market with their cloud versions  ERP solutions. SAP  acquisition  SuccessFactor indicates the gravity  threats posed  smaller cloud ERP players. This  forcing larger players  -think their product strategies. They are responding either  modifying their software,    fit the cloud modei . . Microsoft Dynamics   building separate products from ground  . . SAP Business ByDesign. SAP has certified Amazon Web Services AWS for hosting its ERP  AWS cloud. Also, SAP  recent announcement  its HANA platform-based applications,   available via cloud and Oracle  development  enterprise grade ERP cloud solution continue  generate interest. Key triggers for cloud ERP adoption The key triggers for adoption  cloud-based ERP solutions include the following: Flexibility and scalability: Highly scalable cloud infrastructure can respond  the changing business requirements, thereby improving business agility. Innovation: Offload non-core activities such  maintenance and support activities  the cloud provider, and instead, focus  innovation and business growth. Reduced totai cost  ownership TCO: Minimise initiai capitai expenditure and move   operating expenditure modei. The pay--you- modei  cloud ensures payment only for the time duration when the secondary environment   use. Accessibility: Ensure seamless connectivity and accessibility. Security: Invest  firewali and IPS protection with custom policy management, certifications ISO 27oo1, BS7799, ITIL, CMM levei  and stringent security policies. Regulations and compliances: Comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, the European Union Data Protection Act, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS and HIPAA, and other industry-specific regulatory compliance requirements. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  How  approach cloud-based ERP solutions?  cloud-based ERP the solution for ali enterprises? There   one-size-fit-ali solution  framework  determine the answer  this question.  believe that the migration  cloud wili   graduai process, and that the cloud wili -exist along with traditionai infrastructure. Category Decision-making parameters Project type First time implementation  ERP Migration  the existing ERP system Extension  the current ERP system  capabilities  include additionai functionalities Size and type   enterprise Smali Medium Large Subsidiaries  larger enterprises ERP system landscape complexity Configuration  the proposed ERP system Current technology infrastructure  weli  applications landscape, including system software operating system and database Integration requirements Size  the ERP footprint Business requirements Number  concurrent users Input output per second IOPS requirements High availability  Recovery time objective RTO and recovery point objective RPO for disaster recovery systems Other functionalities Risk and compliance Industry-specific compliance and regulatory requirements Data protection and security requirement Data sovereignty  PwCDevOps: Bridging the paradox  speed and stabilityThe onus   companies  quickly release their products and services into the market  order  stay competitive with the advent  online.   result, the software release cycle  also changing from infrequent and major releases  frequent and smali changes. This new approach  called continuous delivery. Continuous delivery ensures that the code  always ready for release whenever required.  code  ready for release once   built using standard practices, and goes through  complete testing process. DevOps  portmanteau  development and operations  collaboration between development and operations teams and brings  holistic view  the delivery, thereby reducing time--market and stability  the enterprise. Waterfali modei versus continuous delivery approach TimeFrequent and smali releases Less riskChange Infrequent and large releases High risk TimeChangeIntroduction  DevOps Continuous delivery Traditionai software development follows  waterfali modei approach which takes into account aspects such  requirement gathering, planning, software code generation, testing, followed  the release. This modei   lengthy process and takes  long time  reach completion. This, coupled with the organisation  legacy infrastructure and traditionai -premise modei, hampers the  team  rapidly allocate new infrastructure  order  meet the business needs.  today  rapidly changing environment, organisations, especially web-scale companies, experience rapid changes  their business models.  order  stay competitive  such  dynamic market organizations need  meet the changing demands  their users and stakeholders. Given these challenges,   organisation needs  adopt  continuous delivery modei   environment where business needs are continuously changing within days and weeks, instead  months and years. The continuous delivery approach involves  iterative approach  aligning  strategy with avenues such  business strategy, planning, development, deployment, monitoring and optimisation, through metrics and user feedback. Agile software development methods adopted within the continuous delivery approach involves various technologies such  the continuous integration tooi that automates the code build, test  weli  deployment. DevOps   approach involving the change levers across people, process and technology and   integrai component   enterprise wide continuous delivery modei. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies  Continuous delivery framework What  DevOps? DevOps   approach which enables collaboration between development and operations teams, and  the same time ensures  consistent  alignment with the business and also rendering stability  the organisation.  entails agile methods for software development teams while  the same time, also ensures stability  operations  supporting the rapidly changing production environment. This leads  smoother  weli  progressive changes  the application environment vis--vis the drastic and random impact  large scale changes  the waterfali modei.  order  reap the reai benefits  agile development, the underlying infrastructure environment needs  support multiple parallei instances  same applications.  the other hand, the legacy application environment wili not support swift application changes. Commerciai off-the shelf packaged applications  not support  high levei  customisation, and hence, there   pressing need  look   open-source code for DevOps. Need for DevOps Enterprises are focussed  delivering multiple applications across  variety  devices.  addition, the banking and retaii sectors are launching mobile applications  enhance their customers experience. Organisations from these sectors have been investing  scalable infrastructure and using agile methodology  software development. Developers are looking  embrace agile software development methods and incorporating continuous  weli  frequent changes  the production environment,  that the  set- remains aligned with the business, while  the same time assuring high levels  quality.  the contrary, the  operations team   organisation always prefers  stable and static environment. The DevOps approach  software development wili help  easing out the friction and conflict between the development and operations teams, and wili also help both sides  meeting their respective objectives. Best practices and tools For  effective DevOps strategy,  organisation needs  adhere  the best practices adopted, and incorporate industry standard tools within its environment. Version controi:  centralised development version repository used    bottleneck for  enterprise having different groups  people, distributed across multiple locations across the globe. The distributed version controi system DVCS enables each developer  maintain their locai version repositories, and hence speeds  the productivity process. Currently, Git and Mercuriai are the best available tools for DVCS. Content management: Distributing content through emails leads  enormous duplication and increases the storage requirement. Tools such  Mediawiki can  leveraged    create  index structure with detailed pages linked  . Configuration management:  automated way  configuration management means that any machine can  provisioned with  application deployed and configured automatically,  using  single command.  order  test the resiliency  its  environment,  organisation can use tools such  Chaos Monkey which makes individuai components   system faii   random manner. This  particularly helpfui  testing  gauging the robustness   system. Continuous integration: Maintaining large scale projects with multiple builds can   nightmare. Tools such  Teamcity help  automated triggering  builds, and provide holistic reports  ali the build tests within the project. Whenever,  developer makes  change,  wili  automatically tested through the build environment,  that any failure due  this change can  easily tracked and resolved. This approach ensures  correct working version  end--end build  any point  time. Business function enablement and collaborationInterface automation Reporting Management Orchestration Platforms Build management Continuous integration Testing Deployment Change managementUser feedback Communi- cation Right skilling Collaboration Development Infrastructure Release managementOperationsTechnology Process People Finance Sales and marketing Operations Supply chainDevOps - Levers  change governance, review, metricsBest practiceAlign Strategy Continuous deliveryPlan and develop  PwCPackage management and archive:  package management repository automates installing, uninstalling, and updating software releases.  also helps  tracking changes while reducing the time  build and release. Also, archiving the build  also  important  developing the artifacts. Artifactory  considered   one  the most robust and secured repositories  the market. NuGet and RPM are examples  package repositories. Integrated development environment IDE agnostic build: Developers can execute their locai builds  using their IDE. However, the master build should  able  run  any platform, and must  compatible with other scripts. Towards this, tools such  Ant and Nant currently drive IDE agnostic builds. Testing: Successfui implementation  DevOps requires  organisation  adopt  test-driven approach. Since  involves frequent changes,   essentiai  plan  robust test strategy  order  ensure that the code changes are thoroughly tested, and chances  failure  the production environment are minimai. The testing starts from the unit levei, then moves  the component levei and finally goes through the acceptance test.  the beginning  the project, the test team starts writing the test code, which  parallei  the code generation phase.  addition, the operations team also starts writing the code for automated provisioning. These parallei steps help  reducing time--market  the release   product   software  days  even  minutes. Release process: Traditionai versus continuous delivery Application development Manuai code generation Manuai packagingOperationai configuration Manuai configuration Manuai provisioningTesting Manuai test scenarios Manuai testing Traditionai release process Time months  years Application development Operationai configuration Testing AutomatedProduction Production Time minutes  days Continuous delivery release process  order  aid the test-driven software development approach, automated testing frameworks such  JUnit, Selenium are currently available. These tools provide automated record  playback options for authoring these tests  weli  running multiple parallei tests. Continuous deployment: Currently, Chef and Puppet are the most popular tools for auto deployment  build packages  artifacts. Auto deployment lends consistency  the builds within the development, quality assurance, user acceptance testing, pre-production and production environment. Benefits  DevOps approach can transform businesses and can achieve various measurable benefits. They help  increasing the frequency  deployment  products  weli  services, and thereby help  gathering valuable customer feedback which serves   key input  innovation. Increased collaboration  another benefit that has also been observed, which thereby leads  developing the new ideas. With this approach, enterprises can not only achieve cost reductions  operations and development, but can also roli-out new software and services into the market, hence creating growth  weli  additionai revenue opportunities. Time--market  reduced significantly due  the agile processes, thereby enhancing customer experience. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 37Benefits through DevOps Collaboration QualityCustomer base Time  marketHeadcount New software and services Development and operations costs Platform reachRevenue Deployment frequency Short Medium Long Time frameLow Medium HighImprovementIncrease ReduceIn order  achieve the benefits  this approach, certain factors need   kept  mind. Agility: Always follow  agile methodology  structure the tasks and choosing the technology Legacy infrastructure:  matter what levei  automation  introduced within the environment, legacy infrastructure and applications wili continue  exist. Hence appropriate controls  processes need    place End--end automation: One must always aim for complete automation  the delivery pipeline  order  reduce the time--market and reduce errors due  manuai intervention. Continuous monitoring:  constant eye needs    monitoring the environment and accounting key metrics. Right infrastructure:  order  run the continuous delivery approach,  enterprise needs  invest  the right type  infrastructure, that , IaaS solutions.  IaaS solution wili offer scalability  respond  varying business needs, anytime anywhere access  applications, and also reduce the TCO through the pay--you- modei.  PwC  future, nobody wili buy the cow when they only need milk.  Devi Shetty Founder and Chairman Narayana HealthCIO interviews Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 39In  conversation with PwC India, Srikanth Raman, Group CIO  Narayana Hrudalaya Hospitals, discusses how sociai, mobile and cloud platforms can enhance doctor-patient interaction delight for the healthcare industry. Interview conducted  Ritesh PalPwC India:  the Group CIO  Narayana Hrudalaya Hospitai, what  important  you  what are your priorities? Sirkanth Raman:  far, ali our effort tili date has been based towards using  for the administrative affairs.  have just step out  start   program where  wili get the clinicai personnei involved  utilising  for improving patient care. What  are trying     make available important screens from our existing hospitai information system HIS   mobile platform. The idea being that,  far  has been difficult  engage the medicai community doctors  electronic health record EMR effort because they see that this  something that  taking them away from patient care and consider    extra work for them  feed data  the way the digitai world demand. But with the mobility system coming  and  the important modules  HIS are made available   smart phone, then  would mean that the medicai community wili start using   and when they see the patients. Then data entry wili not become  separate activity. Today the antipathy towards the use  technology towards healthcare  because   been perceived   separate activity for different purposes and not directly associated with healthcare. The minute  take that mentai block out and say that when  doctor comes   see  patient the mobility piece wili help him interact with the patient  such  way that  wili have two-fold impact firstly  wili  able  get important information about the patient  past record, and secondly that this wili not impact the time taken for him  attend the patient. Instead  you want him  enter data   desktop and  laptop  wili actually take time away from patient care. Consider  patient has come  today with  file which has about 1oo papers. Now with the kind  volumes  centre  Narayana Hrudalaya has  handle daily there  hardly time  read through the file, then attend  the patient and see what  wrong and decide  the next steps. , with the manuai record there  nothing  can .  can probably look     reassurance for the patient, but there   distilled information that  making the job   doctor easy  quick. Compare that   mobile device  front  the doctor, which can  his own smart phone, where  just enters the patient data and  wili synchronise  the backend with the database and give the last treatment details  the form   graph  other depiction that  easy  comprehend  less time. Imagine the patient interaction delight that  can result ! !  are trying   towards that.  far  has been trying  act parallely and independently  what the clinicai community need. Our idea   synchronise this effort and not make data entry  separate chore but   part  the entire process where the doctors can interact meaning fully with the patient community.  think that wili make  big difference  the uptake and adoption  technology  that area.  think making the HIS application   least the most relevant modules   like -prescription, laboratory diagnostic viewing, requesting for lab space, viewing the radiology image   mobile smart phone etc are going   game changers  the way that the medicai community adapts and accepts the technology. PwC India: Why  cloud computing taking   much importance? What  the big change? Srikanth Raman: Basically cloud computing   better and more efficient way  utilising the same resources. Narayana Hrudalaya today has got  locations and suppose  are not   cloud platform and are trying   everything   traditionai data centre environment, then imagine the effort  have  put  setting  these data centres and the respective disaster recovery  centres. Also  this scenario, since  cannot scale   and when demand comes ,  would always oversize the requirement both  terms  network and server.  there wili   large element  the sunk cost which wili not  utilised. Maybe once   month for payroli  may need extra processing power,  may  everyday  the evening say between -  when  discharge somebody  may need more processing power  process the invoices.    normai, non-cloud environment  would have  make ali those investment upfront which wili   sunk cost and you cannot really scale  demand also. However,  the cloud scenario  would  able  avaii the extra CPU power and pay only for the  hours extra whenever  need .  basically with cloud  soon  people need  resources they can hire them rather than having  buying them. That  where the cloud concept wili  very important.  PwCPwC India: How aware  you think your CEO and CFO are about the potentiai  cloud computing, and  what areas  they need some education? Why  you think  CEO and CFO should care about cloud computing and cloud based solutions? Srikanth Raman: Luckily  Narayana Hrudalaya since  did not have too much   investment  legacy systems when  embarked  this journey about three-and-half  four years ago. Today  have about  hospitai environments and since  did not have too much investment  legacy systems  were able  quickly move   cloud  virtualised environment.  the awareness about cloud  the top management team  quite high, because  have already crossed the stage  thinking whether data centre  required    have    cloud. But may  other hospitals  institutions may not   lucky  the respect they may have already made significant investment  the past. One  the major problems for the CFOs  those institutions would   consider what   with  much sunk cost already gone  the  infrastructure? How does   away with ? And this   very difficult decision  take. That  one aspect. What  can   CIOs probably   may  explain and tabulate those ROIs much better and explain  them how the cloud modei wili ensure that there wili  very little capitai expenditure CAPEX for  instead  wili  more   operating expense OPEX.  some  the business modei  can even  for the pay-per-use modei. There could  some services  future where  would consume the entire HIS and the infrastructure and the network   usage based modei. For example  could come   modei where  can say that for every OPD bili that  generated  would pay  vendor some amount and they wili provide the whole thing   service including the infrastructure, connectivity and the required software.  when  reach that stage  wili bring predictability benefits  the business.   long  they can estimate the number  patients coming ,  wili  able  predict the  cost very easily. There   great joy  converting CAPEX  OPEX the finance team always loves that! PwC India: How  you see the role  CIOs changing  the future? Srikanth Raman:  far, traditionally  CIO was not really involved  business,  was more   guy looking after the hardware and network. People remembered him only when there was  outage   problem.  was not  proactive guy,  was  guy who would react  problems that  put   him. But the whole way this cloud and sociai mobility platform engages  wili  much   proactive role that  wili have  play.  wili become more   business person rather than   person.  the future you wili find more and more CIOs coming from non-technology background possibly from finance background  from operations  management background. Because  see that with cloud and mobility platforms taking more precedence most  the drudgery  the  work  going  get outsourced.  the people who wili  running the  shop within the  organisation wili  business people and management people. They wili not  technology people. That wili   major change  can see. PwC India: What were your business drivers for investing  cloud computing? Srikanth Raman: One  the major business driver  the sheer impossibility for retaining good  talent. Few years ago  were two hospitals now  are twenty three. Imagine the number  resources  would require   have  maintain  large  department including the application part,    are only looking  the cloud computing part and the infrastructure side then  would have  maintain ali the servers, manage them and ensure  proper  and retrievai policies. But the kind  people  wili need  very difficult  recruit and more difficult  retain. Also the career path  wili  able  give them wili  limited because  are not  the business  computers   are  the business  providing medicai services. This  one major issue  our mind. Secondly, given the fact govt  building  many SWAN networks across the states the bandwidth cost  going  come down  future and can   sustaining factor for cloud  move forward  the long run. And the great attraction  having  flexible modei with completely opex cost was the third driver.  the most important driver   feei running  dept  not worthwhile for  industry like  hospitai because  wili not  able  either attract  retain the right talent that  the most important one and having said that cost  also  important factor  think  the long run    year scenario cloud wili save  substantiai cost  terms  what  have spent  capex and opex  the traditionai modei vis--vis cloud. PwC India: Cloud has the potentiai  deliver multiple business benefits, however only  weli defined adoption strategy and implementation roadmap formulated after proper due diligence and assessment can help leverage the benefits. What  your view? Srikanth Raman: That  very true. What happens  that true cloud service providers are not many and  requires lot  skills  find where the pitfalls are. Also  one  just trying  replicate the hardware environment   data centre and say    cloud environment then they are likely  oversize and therefore lose money  the cloud rather than save. The beauty about cloud   can consume  and when   need,  the idea   design the cloud  such  way that  can save enough for normai purposes but then  should not over engineer.  that whenever you need there   capability for you  ask for more and get  and pay only for that time.  you don  have that perspective you are  trouble with the cloud. Also you should have readiness  terms   strategy which  becoming very important. You should also take care  your network environment because  cloud  your network goes down you are  trouble. Even  the cloud infrastructure  very strong, but  the network  weak then you are  big trouble.  for ali our centres  have not one but two levels  connectivity  the MPLS followed  with one more levei  redundancy  terms  the internet VPN. That  the compelling point. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 41PwC India:  what  understand  proper design and architecture   key aspect for cloud adoption? Srikanth Raman: Absolutely yes. PwC India:  cloud security just  matter  people getting comfortable with  over time? How  you think cloud security wili evolve? Srikanth Raman:  think cloud security has evolved  the western world mainly because  the government mandate.  India may    stili early time since  don  have any clear safeguard provided  the government levei. But these are bound  come. Security  very important but   -able with  good service provider.   believe that  good service provider wili  able  provide better security than individuai organisations can provide for themselves. For example, today    many financiai transactions  the internet,  think there are  lot  people who goes  the railway site  buy  ticket and they use their credit card over the net.   don  think there  any problem  terms  the -ability side  the security side even for the patient data.   only  matter  taking time  ensure that your service provider  able  provide those standards and follow those standards.  don  think  should   inhibiting factor  ali. PwC India: Healthcare and pharmaceuticals industry has  number  compliance and regulations. How  you view the compliance issues can  addressed  the cloud? Srikanth Raman: The fact remains  need  have very good security standards but then you have  look who can provide that better. Take the example   individuai organisation like Narayana Hrudalaya. Suppose  sets  its own  infrastructure  serve its own need. Then  can implement  certain levei  security  terms  whatever  can invest  security. But instead  you have  service provider who provides cloud services for  living, then  wili  able    and scale  terms  security needs and provide whatever  the best  the current standards. Also security, compliance and regulatory standards keep  changing and enhanced.   specialised cloud service provider wili    much better position  adapt  those changes because they are doing  for  group  clients and not for one single client. Therefore they wili  more adaptable and quicker  compared  individuai institutions doing   their own. Therefore security and compliance  not  obstacle, actually these are the prime factors   why one should move  the cloud quickly. PwC India: Where are you seeing new opportunities  deploy cloud based solutions  the healthcare and pharmaceuticals industry? Srikanth Raman: Specifically  healthcare most  the mobility and cloud players are looking  patient based solutions  the applications side. However,  recommendation  that they should explore the options from the perspective  the medicai community . . the doctor himself.  you look  India, the market  skewed  terms  demand and supply. The doctor  stili holds the key. Therefore whatever makes the doctors life better and make his patient interaction accurate and faster  what wili get accepted fast. ,  think instead  trying  make the applications work from the patient side they should concentrate  the doctor  side and approach the whole thing from this angle. This wili  turn drive that the patient  needs are met and then everybody wili  happy. PwC India: Tili date, what has Narayana Hrudalaya done  terms  adopting these emerging technologies and what are the future plans? Srikanth Raman:  you look  cloud what  can teli you  that  ali our  locations that  run today there are  physicai servers other than the domain servers, everything else  running upon  virtualised environment.  have found out that its best  outsource the entire piece    terms  bundling the application   service provider and bundling the infrastructure and connectivity  another service provider and just trying  manage them   case  case basis,   don  really have  worry about  infrastructure any more. This has been our modei.  think this modei has made possible for   scale  very quickly and has made  very nimble  the market today.  has also brought  lot  standardisation. Now across ali the hospitals you see the same language  terms  MIS,  could not imagine this happening   data centre based modei where everything  distributed. These are two big advantages. There are also great advantages that can  achieved  applying these technologies  the clinicai area.  have just started  that  that part now. maybe  about one  two years time  should see great benefit  the clinicai side too.   now most  the benefit have been  the administrative arena and few clinicai benefits  simple areas like emaii for patients, one point registration across any  the  hospitals which ensures that one patient  not have  register second time  any  the hospitals again. These are smali advantages already been available  the patients, but  think  the long run more and more  this doctor-patient interaction delight  going  emerge because  the sociai, mobility and cloud platform. And  think  are   good state  early adopters  reap ali those advantages.  PwCPwC India:  the Group CIO what are your priorities and what are the challenges that you typically face today? Ekhlaque Bari: Stabilisation  our existing  set-  one   key priorities today. Currently,  face about two  three disruptions related   every month that tends  have  impact  our business.  would like  reach  stage where business wili  able  run without any disruption for six months plus. Other priorities include reducing business costs and contributing revenue growth. PwC India: How  you plan  overcome these challenges? Ekhlaque Bari:  have set targets  key result areas KRAs for the whole team. Currently, the entire team has  set  eight KRAs. Four  which are focussed  growing and transforming the business, and they are revenue, operationai excellence, productivity and innovation ROPI.  addition, for run the business,  strive towards compliance and security, availability, responsiveness and efficiency CARE. Each member  the team owns one  multiple targets out  the eight metrics. One group  the team  focussed  stability, while the other group focuses  reducing cost and growing revenue.   conversation with PwC India, Ekhlaque Bari, Group CIO   Media Limited, discusses the importance  cloud computing and the changing role   chief information officer CIO  the current business environment. Interview conducted  Vivek KhoslaPwC India:  the future, how wili the role   CIO  different from the ones  the past? Ekhlaque Bari: Traditionally, the CIO and his  her team spent  huge portion  their time  negotiating, architecting compute, data centre and managing resources. This portion wili diminish  compute and storage wili become  black box and services wili  SLA- driven  the cloud. This modei wili lead  the workforce focussing  the business side that , reducing cost, and growing revenue. The emergence  the cloud, wili lead  the creation  strong governance and  security team. Another thing that CIOs have  deai with  the support  myriad devices. They wili need  bring  more collaboration, and intranet sites wili need  have same look and feei  Facebook and Twitter. With the SaaS modei, businesses can subscribe services without the involvement  , and hence budgets which were earlier allocated for , wili now move  the business, with the advent  the cloud. CIOs wili need   more business savvy and more people within the business wili start taking  the role  the CIO. Also, the overali need for technology know-how wili decrease. Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 43PwC India: How  cloud computing influencing your strategies? Ekhlaque Bari: Cloud   the centre  everything  are doing today.  believe  the simple rule  following  cloud first policy. With the advent  cloud computing the any compute requirement can  provisioned from the cloud either through  SaaS  public PaaS  public IaaS  ultimately the private IaaS modei. Also, cloud  impacting TCO for data centres, skili sets  people and  changing the kind  processes they are engaged . PwC India: How  cloud changing your conversation with your chief executive officer CEO and the chief finance officer CFO?  you think  CEO  CFO should care about cloud computing? Ekhlaque Bari: For  CFO, only two things matter, how much cost can  reduced and how much value are you adding. They  not care about the service models being deployed.  most enterprises, the running cost and TCO  cloud  lower than maintaining traditionai data centres. This would interest  CFO and the same  the case with  Media. With the change  funding modei from capitai expenditure CAPEX  operating expenditure OPEX  can now rent  infrastructure for  lakh INR for conducting  experiment, whereas earlier  used  cost  approximately  crore INR. This  what  highlight when  talk   CEO and CFO. PwC India: What are the key business drivers for investing  cloud computing? What business value you believe can  derived from cloud computing? Ekhlaque Bari: The key drivers for cloud computing which  turn can result  significant business benefits include reduction  TCO, shift from  CAPEX   OPEX modei  funding, enhanced agility resulting  quicker time  market, revenue enablement and reduced cost  experimentation thus fostering innovation. PwC India: How does cloud computing help with innovation within  enterprise? Ekhlaque Bari:  pride myself  saying that technology  not about possibilities,   about economics. Today with  clap   hand,  newspaper can  printed. Although that  technically possible,   not economically feasible   might cost billions  dollars. Therefore,  reducing the cost  failure, and fostering the ability  face such failures, helps the innovation process   huge way, and towards this, cloud helps define new business models. PwC India: What are your finai observations  cloud computing? Ekhlaque Bari: Cloud wili change the entire landscape  the  industry  weli  the  ecosystem. Business  business B2B transactions wili transform into  B2C transactions, where  wili stands for cloud providers. Due  cloud computing, the role  the CIO wili also undergo  transformation.  PwCPwC India:  your observation, what are the key trends  enterprise  which wili define the future landscape? Vineet Anand:   view, enterprise    for  big change  ali spheres, from  business, technology  weli   operationai perspective. From  business perspective, new models wili evolve because  the prevailing sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud SMAC trends. For example, businesses that earlier needed  higher degree  compute power upfront cost was  huge entry barrier. Now, with cloud compute power that barrier  non-existent  lowered   large extent. Hence, established businesses may find new innovative entrants who are going  challenge the existing traditionai norms. New models  executing tasks might  seen across various businesses, for example, technicai schools  colleges need not have  -house computer lab, but can have access  the best  the tools  weli  the computer lab  the cloud. From  technologicai point  view,  feei, more  open-source and large scale platforms wili evolve that wili enable   use internet more   compute and  store service, and not just something that allow   connect. From  operationai perspective,  operationai practices might see  huge shift towards automation, since now with cloud, ali tools and services are easily available and configurable  compared  few years back.  nutsheli, what  means  that SMAC wili gradually, but wili certainly change the way  think about doing tasks and executing them.   conversation with PwC India, Vineet Anand, Senior Vice President, Information Technology  Macmillan Publishers India Limited, discusses various aspects  Macmillan  journey  the cloud Interview conducted  Kumar  PwC India: What  the significance  cloud computing  the current  landscape?  you think  infrastructure  now transforming itself into  commodity? Vineet Anand: Any trend that simplifies the way   business, either   lower   comparable cost  bound  receive due importance. Cloud computing falls within this category.  simplifies the  infrastructure, cuts down complex processes, and its cost  the same time provides the necessary business agility.   certain extent,  infrastructure  now becoming  commodity, but   believe  wili take some time before  wili truly  commoditised. PwC India: What role does cloud computing play within your enterprise? Vineet Anand:  Macmillan Publishers India Ltd.  have moved almost everything  the cloud. One hundred per cent  our production services are cloud-based solutions  services, including enterprise resource planning erp, customer relationship management crm, interactive voice response ivr, web platform, emaii, etc. PwC India: Macmillan Publishers India has migrated its entire SAP and  production environment   AWS cloud. What were the key drivers behind this decision? Vineet Anand: For  smali and medium business SMB company   hard  employ dedicated expert resources necessary  support business criticai  infrastructure. Now, with fully-supported infrastructure services and the DevOps modei tools for automation  infrastructure operations from the Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 45cloud provider,   easy  manage high levei  service and with minimai number  staff members. From  cost perspective, our current infrastructure was obsolete and needed  high degree  investment.  instead  choosing  deploy CAPEX  our  infrastructure,  opted  use   drive business value generation projects, and deployed our infrastructure  the cloud service provider, which was calculated   much cheaper   compare  with  similar levei  service and durability. Also,  the time  considering this infrastructure investment, our business was unsure about the scale and size  the computer platform required for future endeavours. Hence, flexibility and spending money only  the things that  use was another important factor while considering  cloud-based solution. Presently,  services are deeply embedded into the business activities   company,   extent that any outage   services directly affects the company  ability  perform and deliver services  its customers. Hence, mitigating risk and providing high levei  assurance was  key factor while choosing between cloud   -house system. PwC India: What were the lessons learnt during this exercise? Vineet Anand: Key elements  this exercise are similar  any large  Infrastructure projects.  would say that   important  engage with  partner who can support the organisation through the entire cycle that  right from architecture building  proof- -concept, deployment, testing and migration. Also,  have learnt that checking ali the regulatory, software licences and other compliance issues  cruciai.   important  assess the impact  any negative user experience due  latency  any other technicai issues  engaging the end-users during the testing process and appropriately addressing the same. PwC India: What key parameters did you consider before taking this decision? How did you convince your CEO and CFO about cloud computing   viable business proposition? Vineet Anand:  business case was built around    provide  simplified, long-term sustainable and measurable  infrastructure modei along with substantiai return  investment ROI saving.  mentioned earlier, key drivers for cloud adoption were sustainable solution, cost, agility and business risk mitigation. PwC India: Security has become  key concern  adopting cloud solutions. From your experience, what have you learned with respect  addressing security issues  the cloud? Vineet Anand:  think  generai statement that security   concern within cloud  not appropriate. For example,  SMB company with extensive internet exposure might  able  lower its risk profile vis--vis  they would have attempted    their own, without adding substantiai cost.  the same time, for  large company with operations across multiple geographies that needs  meet various compliance and regulatory obligations and ensure personai identifiable data PIF and intellectuai property   always protected might face certain jurisdictionai challenges. Handling security   two-paragoned approach, for which one needs tools and efficient practices operating, monitoring, collating and analysing practises  place. This  valid for both -house  weli  cloud-based security, hence there   additionai risk  the cloud. Lastly,   important  review the cloud agreements and ensure that ali security elements that matters   organisation most are being considered and managed  the provider. PwC India:  you think private cloud  more secure than public cloud? Vineet Anand: Depends what you want   with . Each one has its own place.  ali depends  the company  risk profile and appetite, along with its business and  architecture. PwC India: What are your future plans  cloud adoption? Vineet Anand: Within the Indian business context  are 1oo  cloud. PwC India:  cloud the future  ERP? Vineet Anand: Yes,  believe that ERP  cloud  going   the future.   opinion,  wili  more   industry-based SAAS modei models such  ERP for logistics, ERP for airlines  ERP for publishers, etc.  PwCAbout the Confederation  Indian Industry The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, Government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry led and industry managed organization, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo member organizations, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo companies from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai associations. CII charts change  working closely with Government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialised services and globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  diverse issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with over 12o NGOs across the country carry forward our initiatives for integrated and inclusive development,  affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  both the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  many. With  offices including  Centres  Excellence  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, France, Singapore, South Africa, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Contacts For further details, contact: Arunima Sharma, Director, Confederation  Indian IndustryIndia Habitat Centre, Core , 4th Floor, Institutionai Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi - 11o oo3 India :   415o4514- :   24682228Emaii: Arunima. sharma cii. , Web: www. cii.  Membership Helpline: ---435 46244 --991o4 46244 CII Helpline Toli free : 18oo-1o3-1244www. cii.  Breaking boundaries with emerging technologies 47About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcContacts  have  deeper discussion around emerging technologies and innovation and how  can benefit your enterprise, please contact: Debdas Sen Executive Director Partner Regionai Managing Partner East and Technology Consulting Leader Emaii: debdas. sen . pwc. com Sandeep Ladda Executive Director Partner Technology Sector Leader Emaii: sandeep. ladda . pwc. com Arnab Basu Executive Director Partner Emerging Technologies LeaderEmaii: arnab. basu . pwc. com Rajesh Rajan Associate DirectorEmerging Technologies Emaii: rajesh. rajan . pwc. comwww. pwc.  Data Classification: DCO This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  13o - Dec 2o13 Running    Business. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India