Title: Impact on MNCs: Budget allocation and tax policy implications
Date Published: 2025-02-02 23:12:42+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_impact-on-mncs-budget-allocation-and-tax-policy-implications.pdf
Word Count: 2074
Sentence Count: 167
Average Sentence Length: 20.01

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 48
budget: 38
tax: 32
government: 25
pwc: 21
manufacturing: 20
law: 18
globai: 16
mncs: 15
impact: 13
reforms: 13
years: 12
measures: 11
also: 11
proposed: 11
indian: 10
duty: 10
year: 10
provide: 10
business: 9

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

India Budget 2o25 Impact  MNCs  India February 2o25 PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India2 Preface   February, the finance minister presented the first fuli budget  Modi Government . . Towards its vision  Viksit Bharat Developed India, the government identifies agriculture, micro, smali and medium enterprises, investment, and exports  the macro levei  its four powerfui engines, with reforms  its fuei and inclusivity  its guiding spirit. The budget focuses  various development measures, including boosting manufacturing, furthering Make  India, enabling employment-led development, investing  people, the economy and innovation, securing energy supplies, promoting exports, and nurturing innovation. The budget also aims  initiate transformative reforms across six domains, including taxation, the power sector, urban development, mining, the financiai sector and regulatory reforms. The big news  tax  the proposed introduction   new and simplified tax law,  draft  which    shared  the next few days. The other themes  the tax proposals include supporting domestic manufacturing and value addition, promoting exports, encouraging voluntary compliance and ensuring ease  doing business amongst others. However, there   mention about the introduction  Pillar-Two rules  response  the globai tax reforms.  seems that the Indian Government  adopting  wait and watch approach  this front. The budget proposals were tabled  the Parliament   February. After due debate and discussions  the Parliament, the budget, with any other amendments that may  required based  the process  the Parliament,    legislated and become law with effect from  Aprii 2o25,  from other relevant dates for specific proposals. While the budget includes numerous tax amendments and changes, which  the budget proposals impact you,   multinationai corporation MNC,  doing business with Indian third-party customers  dealing with your Indian subsidiaries and affiliates?  present  concise summary  these key changes for your reference. PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India3 Doing business with India There   change  the headline income-tax rate for foreign and Indian companies.  change  the headline tax rate for foreign  Indian companies Customs duty ratesTax rates The proposed changes  Customs duty rates are strategically aligned with the Make  India initiative, aiming  bolster domestic manufacturing and promote locai value addition. The overarching theme   award duty concessions  the import  capitai goods and raw materials meant for manufacturing  India, and  introduce duty hikes  the import  finished goods. Certain notable duty rationalisation measures revolve around the following: Capitai goods for the production  lithium- ion batteries for electric vehicles and mobile phones Solar modules, other semiconductor devices and photovoltaic cells for use  renewable energy Formulations used  the production  life- saving drugs  medicines Another notable change  proposed  the tariff slabs. The Indian Customs Tariff had  many   duty slabs untii last year. The government reduced the duty slabs    the last Union Budget, which  now further reduced  only eight slabs. Overali, the duty rationalisation measures aim  not only augmenting locai value addition  India but also strategically placing India  the emerging globai geo-economics. PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India4 India  current tax law was introduced way back  1961, and  was largely modelled   1922 law. The current tax legislation   comprehensive piece  legislation that includes 298 sections across  chapters. Over the decades, this legislation has been tweaked repeatedly  address the changing business paradigm, within the same overali construct that dates back almost  century. This has resulted   complex law that creates ambiguity and uncertainty  the tax law, resulting  increased tax litigation.  address this, the government  working towards  new direct tax code DTC. This effort  overhaui the income-tax law has been ongoing for severai years. The journey began  2oo9 when the then finance minister proposed the concept   DTC.  draft  the DTC was unveiled  August 2oo9 for public consultation, but  never saw the light  day.  2o17, the Modi Government revived the DTC and constituted  task force  draft new direct tax legislation. The task force submitted its report  direct tax reforms  2o19. This report was not made public nor was  implemented. However,   believed that some parts  the proposals were incorporated  the law over the years through the annuai budget-making process. This journey now seems close  culmination. The Modi Government . ,  its first budget  July 2o24, announced that  new law    unveiled  six months. Consistent with this announcement, the finance minister again announced  her budget speech yesterday that  draft law    introduced  the next few days. The new DTC  expected   clear and direct. The expanse  the law  also expected   significantly shorter with only half  the present tax legislation,  terms  both chapters and words.   proposed   simple for taxpayers and administration  understand, leading  tax certainty and reduced litigation.  the government delivers  these expectations,  would   bold reform measure  create  simplified tax law with the potentiai  create  more transparent, efficient and business-friendly environment.  keenly await the draft law.   also expected   open for public consultation, and comments may  considered before being legislated. Introduction  the new simplified tax code PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India5 Presumptive tax regime for non-residents providing technology  service  India  electronics manufacturing Sector India has been making significant strides  positioning itself   globai hub for electronics system design and manufacturing.  has been the prime minister  vision for India  become  globai hub for semiconductor design, manufacturing and technology development.  line with this, the government has approved  comprehensive programme aimed  developing  robust ecosystem for semiconductors and display manufacturing. Under the programme, severai schemes are introduced, including the production-linked incentive for large-scale electronics, Scheme for Promotion  Manufacturing  Electronic Components and Semiconductors, scheme for setting  semiconductor fabs  India and  design-linked incentive scheme.  furtherance  the same,   proposed that non-residents providing technology  services  Indian resident companies that are establishing  operating electronics manufacturing  connected facilities for manufacturing  producing electronic goods, articles  things  India, under  government- notified scheme, can opt for  presumptive taxation regime. The presumptive tax regime deems   the receipts  the non-resident  account  providing services  technology  profits chargeable  tax. This   result  effective tax payable  .  plus surcharge and cess  the gross receipts. Non-residents opting for the presumptive tax regime cannot set-off any unabsorbed depreciation  brought forward losses for that year. The frequently- asked questions further clarify that provision  technicai personnei  also eligible for the regime. There seem    few drafting aspects that may need   addressed before the law  enacted. The provision suggests that the regime wili  available for technology  services provided  India. This can give rise   debate  whether this covers services  technology provided from outside India; hence, this should  clarified.  addition, the amount eligible for the presumptive taxation regime  the amount paid  payable   payable  behalf   non- resident and the amount received  deemed   received    behalf  the non- resident. The use  and can create confusion, since the same amount can  paid  weli  received   non-resident and hence lead  double counting.  hope that these issues are addressed  the finai law.  addition, the finance minister  her speech also mentioned that  safe harbor    provided for non-residents who store components  India for supply  specified electronics manufacturing units. Details  the same are not provided yet. PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India6Internationai trade facilitation Indian Customs laws provide for provisionai assessments  shipments wherever the Revenue authorities intend  seek further information from the importer, such   the case  trade between related parties. The law does not prescribe any timelines for closure  finalisation  such provisionai assessments. This creates ambiguity  the trade lacks certainty for severai years untii the assessment  finalised. The government has addressed this long-standing ask  the industry  this budget  prescribing  timeline  two years extendable further  one year  finalise such assessments, except  certain specified cases.   also provided that for existing provisionai assessments pending finalisation, the timeline  two years extendable  one year should start from the date  enactment  the budget proposals. Time-bound closure  provisionai assessments The government has introduced  facility for voluntary revision  import and export declarations post-clearance except  certain specified cases such  those involving ongoing investigations, audits and - assessments. This provision allows businesses  either pay additionai duty  seek  refund  duty, depending  the circumstances, without facing any punitive actions. This proposai   example  the trust-based taxation regime the government has promoted. Trade facilitation has been  area  policy focus for the government for the past severai years. Continuing with the agenda, the government proposes  few trade-friendly measures  internationai trade laws. Voluntary disclosure  materiai facts post-clearance Having said , the law does not clearly provide for the outcome where the Revenue authorities faii  finalise the assessment within the stipulated time period, . . whether the provisionai assessment  the Revenue authorities    deemed   finalised  the self-assessment made  the importer stands accepted.   expected that the government wili provide clarity  this issue  due course. PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India7Ease  compliance and provision  certainty   Currently, transfer-pricing  audits are carried out every year along with the regular tax audit. The audit  each year  isolation puts constraints  the limited resources available with tax authorities, who then must complete many audits annually within  short time frame.  streamline the process and provide  alternative  annuai  audits, the concept  block  audits for  period  three years  proposed  permit multi-year arm -length price determination,  the option  the taxpayer.   proposed that the arm -length price determined  relation   internationai transaction  specified domestic transaction for  particular year say Year    apply  similar transactions for two consecutive years . . Years  and  immediately following the initiai year . . Year . While the form, manner and time limit  opt for block  audits are yet   prescribed, this rationalisation measure  intended  ease the compliance and administrative burden  both the taxpayers and tax authorities. Block audits The primary objective  the existing  safe harbour rules SHR   reduce  disputes and provide more certainty  taxpayers. However,  its current form, SHR has not generated much enthusiasm among taxpayers due  various factors, such  limited coverage, perceived high margins and low thresholds for eligibility. Similar  the announcement  the last budget, the finance minister  this budget once again reiterated the government  intention  expand the scope  the current SHR  reduce litigation and provide certainty  internationai taxation. While finer details  this proposai are stili awaited,  rationalising the SHR, the government can usher   more predictable and less litigious  environment  India. Expanding the scope  SHR PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India8Investing  India The current government continues  focus  reinforcing the Internationai Financiai Services Centre IFSC framework  solidify India  position   prominent globai financiai hub. The budget proposes  range  reforms designed  bolster the financiai services sector, with specific attention  areas such  retaii funds, insurance, ship leasing and treasury centres. These measures aim  enhance efficiency, attract investments and stimulate economic growth while ensuring  robust regulatory environment. With these comprehensive reforms, the finance minister aims  attract  diverse range  businesses  the IFSC, reinforcing India  emergence   formidable globai financiai hub and boosting investor confidence  the evolving financiai landscape.  few key proposed incentives for the IFSC that may  relevant from the standpoint  MNCs are outlined below. Incentives  the GIFT IFSC:  game changer The budget introduces  significant change for MNCs looking  set  treasury operations  India. Currently, any loans  advances given   closely held company  its shareholders  group entities are taxed  deemed dividend. The budget now proposes  exempt such advances and loans between globai treasury centres GTCs  the IFSC and other group entities  listed foreign parents  principai entities from the purview  deemed dividend. Thus,  has made  much more attractive for MNCs  bring their treasury operations  the IFSC. One key agenda  the government for the past severai years   provide tax incentives  businesses commencing operations  the IFSC. This  subject  certain sunset clauses.   now proposed  extend these sunset clauses for the commencement  operations  IFSC units   March 2o3o.  addition, other measures for shipping and insurance are proposed. The proposals are transformative, significantly enhancing GIFT City  appeai   globai financiai hub. Relaxation from deemed dividend provisions for GTCs  IFSCExtension  sunset dates prescribed  various Indian law PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India9Unveiling the new India The budget has made  slew  policy announcements  accelerate the steady growth  last few years towards  Viksit Bharat. The government launched  fund  funds for start-ups  June 2o16 with  corpus  INR1oom. Under this scheme, the government provides capitai  alternative investment funds, who  turn invest money  start-ups through equity and equity-linked instruments. With the support  this scheme, the alternative investment funds for start-ups have received commitments  more than INR91om. Following the success  this scheme, this budget proposes two different initiatives:   new fund  funds for start-ups with  expanded scope and  fresh contribution  another INR1oom and   DeepTech fund  funds  encourage next-generation start-ups from technicai and non-technicai backgrounds. These initiatives are  help provide seed capitai  start-ups through domestic funding and also accelerate innovation and technologicai advancements  India. The budget also proposes  extend the timelines  obtain  tax holiday for start- ups  another five years; . . the tax benefit  now   available for eligible start-ups incorporated   before  Aprii 2o3o. Globai capability centres GCCs  India are significantly transforming the corporate landscape and influencing globai business dynamics. These centres are focusing  next-generation technologies and establishing artificiai-intelligence centres  excellence, which are expected  drive innovation and solidify India  status   globai talent hub.  leverage this opportunity, the budget has announced the creation   nationai framework for GCCs. This framework aims  enhance talent availability and infrastructure  suggesting building-byelaw reforms  streamline regulatory processes and create  business-friendly environment.  also proposes collaboration mechanisms between the government and industry  meet the evolving needs  GCCs through coordinated efforts.  addressing these criticai areas, the framework seeks  strengthen GCC capabilities; promote regionai economic development, particularly  tier- cities; and reduce migration pressures  urban areas. This strategic initiative  expected  attract internationai investments, stimulate innovation and reinforce India  position   globai talent hub, contributing  the sustainable development  the GCC ecosystem  the country. Start-ups GCCs PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India1o   significant move  bolster the country  manufacturing sector, the government has announced the establishment   Nationai Manufacturing Mission. This initiative  designed  accelerate the goals  the Make  India campaign, aiming  transform India into  globai manufacturing hub. The mission encompasses smali, medium and large industries and focuses  providing comprehensive support across multiple dimensions, including policy frameworks, execution roadmaps and governance mechanisms. The mission ensures the creation   enabling environment that facilitates business growth, attracts investment and drives innovation across the manufacturing ecosystem. The mission  mandate focuses  five key areas  improve the ease and cost  doing business; build  future-ready workforce; foster  vibrant and dynamic micro, smali and medium enterprises sector; prioritise the availability  cutting-edge technology; and ensure the production  high-quality CleanTech manufacturing  driven  the need  address environmentai challenges and the globai shift towards sustainable development. The Indian Government has floated various schemes such  the Nationai Solar Mission, Nationai Electric Mobility Mission Plan, Nationai Clean Energy Fund and production-linked incentive schemes. Continuing its path  foster  greener and more sustainable future for the country, the budget prioritises CleanTech manufacturing, targeting the production  solar photovoltaic cells, electric-vehicle batteries, motors and controllers, electrolysers, wind turbines, high- voltage transmission equipment and grid-scale batteries. These measures collectively aim  drive economic growth while fostering  sustainable and innovative industriai landscape  India. Make  India CleanTech manufacturingproducts. With strong policy support and  clear execution framework, the mission   play  pivotai role  driving sustainable growth and creating  competitive edge for India  the globai marketplace. PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India11 Mergers and amalgamations historically require  very time-consuming court approvai process. With the enactment  the Companies Act, 2o13, the concept  fact-track merger was introduced for the merger between  holding company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.  2o21,  promote start- companies, the ambit  fast-track merger was extended  include the merger between two  more start- companies and between one  more start- company with one  more smali company.   next step, the budget proposes widening the scope  fast-track mergers and simplification  the existing company merger process, which   result  speedy approvals and integration, realise synergies faster, and reduce legai and administrative costs. The budget proposes  set   High-Levei Committee for Regulatory Reforms for  review  ali non-financiai sector regulations, certifications, licences and permissions. The aim   strengthen trust-based economic governance and take transformationai measures  enhance ease  doing business, especially  matters  inspections and compliances.  addition, significant announcements are made  increase foreign-direct investment  1oo  insurance subject  some conditions and measures aimed  make India  globai hub for toy manufacturing. Ali the above steps are poised  create  more conducive environment for business operations and foreign investments. With the objectives  accelerating growth, securing inclusive development, invigorating private sector investments, uplifting household sentiments and enhancing the spending power  India  rising middle class  its core, Budget 2o25 has not just attempted but possibly accelerated the path  Viksit Bharat. The measures are nearly ali-encompassing from the standpoint  sectors, demographics, etc. and promise  ensure India  growth story follows only  skyward progression. Mergers and amalgamations Regulatory reforms PwC India Budget 2o25 - Impact  MNCs  India12In summary The budget proposals continue the theme  tax simplification, certainty and clarity, with  focus  encouraging voluntary compliance and reducing tax compliance. These have been the government  focus  provide the industry with  more tax-friendly environment which has been the constant ask. Measures are also announced  attract investment and promote severai focus sectors, including domestic manufacturing. The finance minister has identified taxation  one  the domains  transformationai reforms. This  very positive, and  hope that reforms wili  implemented  ali areas, including policy, compliances, systems, dispute resolution and tax administration,  provide  regime with easy compliance that provides certainty and  taxpayer-friendly approach. Against this backdrop, the DTC  awaited eagerly   may set the tone for these reforms. About PwC pwc.  Data Classification: DCo Public  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. This document does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this document has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this document represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o25 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  February 2o25 -  CAt PwC, our purpose   build trust  society and solve important problems.    network  firms  151 countries with over 36o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, advisory and tax services. Find out more and teli  what matters  you  visiting   www. pwc. com. PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. 2o25 PwC. Ali rights reserved. Vivek Prasad Gautam Mehra gautam. mehra pwc. comContact 