Title: pwc_16th-ceo-survey-india-final-for-circulation
Date Published: 2013-03-15 15:46:21+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_16th-ceo-survey-india-final-for-circulation.pdf
Word Count: 2652
Sentence Count: 267
Average Sentence Length: 16.7

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 72
ceos: 53
globai: 52
ceo: 44
pwc: 38
growth: 35
survey: 34
annuai: 31
view: 20
year: 18
indian: 17
ali: 17
months: 16
next: 15
also: 15
source: 14
companies: 13
china: 13
respondents: 12
change: 12

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  Seizing the future Adapt  thrive16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from India Multiple futures  What worries Indian CEOs the most?  What are VUCA times?  Strengthening the bridge called trust p16 Agenda for action p17 , 33o CEOs   countries CEOs  India   CEOs  India expect the globai economy  improve  the next  months  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from India16th Annuai PwC Globai CEO Survey  totai,  conducted , 33o interviews with CEOs   countries between  September and  December 2o12.  region, 449 interviews were conducted  Asia Pacific, 312  Western Europe, 227  North America, 165  Latin America,   Centrai and Eastern Europe,   Africa and   the Middle East. The interviews were spread across  range  industries.  better appreciate CEOs perspectives for 2o13,  also conducted -depth interviews with  CEOs from five continents over the fourth quarter  2o12. Their interviews are quoted  this report, and more extensive extracts can  found  our website -  http: www. pwc. com ceosurvey - where you can explore responses  sector and location. Preface The Indian economy  growing  the lowest rate   decade  2o12-.  struggled with inflation and exchange rate volatility even   were witness  the outing  multiple scams and sociai evils. Corporate India yet experienced  healthy revenue growth although returns  investment continued their downward trend. CEOs  India continue   optimistic about their growth prospects even  they have deep concerns about politicai, economic and sociai threats  such growth. What strategies are they adopting  negotiate these threats? This year  CEO Survey  PwC finds three common themes. CEOs are carefully targeting select pockets  opportunity. They are focussed  understanding the changing consumer and taking steps  innovate and meet these needs. They are going about improving operationai effectiveness smartly, cutting cost without cutting value. The survey found some interesting differences  strategies between large and smali companies particularly   the kind  opportunity they are targeting.  majority  the CEOs interviewed  India have also started  strengthen their engagement with locai communities, the media, users  sociai media and non-governmentai organisations. They are working  reduce the environmentai footprint and encouraging  culture  ethicai behaviour. The India view  the 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey explores these issues and more.   delighted  share this publication with you and hope you wili find  insightfui and enjoyable. Deepak Kapoor Chairman  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from Indiarecovering while Southern Europe continues  traii behind. Some changes have been graduai. Within India, growth rates  low-income states have been slowly catching  with that  high-income states since 1997 Other changes are consequentiai. This year, India slipped  the fifth position from the fourth last year  the list  markets that CEOs believe are most important for future growth. One thing  clear though. Scenarios considered improbable earlier are becoming increasingly possible. Varied growth lanes, graduai and sudden Multiple futures  live  VUCA times1. Far-reaching changes are happening now and they are happening faster than before. The incidence  man-made disasters nearly tripled between 197o and 2o11, while the incidence  naturai disasters surged sevenfold  during the same period. The globai economy  limping but there   perceptible pattern  economic clusters following varying speeds  growth. India appears   settling down   growth rate     per annum  the near term. Parts  Southeast Asia and Latin America have outpaced China and India with their accelerating growth rate. North America and Japan are slowly  The term VUCA volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity, originally used   military parlance,  gaining frequency  strategic discussions across  range  organisations since the late 199os  Swiss , sigma .  2o12  Twelfth Five Year Plan, Planning Commission  Indiachanges, and uncertainties make the future  veritable labyrinth with different possible exit points leading  different futures.  India settles into lower economic growth that  stili above the Hindu growth rate, CEOs  India are more optimistic about prospects for the globai economy than last year and show more optimism than their globai counterparts.  India,   the CEOs interviewed think that the globai economy wili improve  the next  months,  opposed    2o12. Their globai counterparts confidence,  contrast, increased rather marginally from   2o12   this year. The globai leader board  changing Ali percentages are projected 2o13- average growth rates Sources and methodology: PwC analysis, nationai statisticai authorities, Thomson Datastream and IMF. The tables above form our main scenario projections and are therefore subject  considerable uncertainties.  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaConvergence  growth rates  low-income states towards ali India levei and high-income states during successive plans Source: Planning Commission  India Top  countries for growth : Which three countries, excluding the country  which you are based,  you consider most important for your overali growth prospects over the next  months? maximum   responses Base: Ali respondents , 33o Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaWhat worries Indian CEOs the most? The Indian CEO  concerned about  range  potentiai and ongoing threats  business growth. Like their globai counterparts, Indian CEOs are concerned about the increasing tax burden, availability  key skills and Top economic and policy threats for globai and Indian CEOs : How concerned are you about the following potentiai economic and policy threats  your business growth prospects? top three threats globai CEOs named Base: Ali respondents , 33o; India ; China and Hong Kong 132 Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyTop three concerns  the globai CEOs Top three concerns  the Indian CEOsBase: Ali respondents , 33o; India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyInadequacy  basic infrastructure   India-specific business threat : How concerned are you about the following potentiai business threats  your growth prospects? top three threats globai CEOs named Top three concerns  the globai CEOs Top three concerns  the Indian CEOsenergy and raw materiai costs. Some factors, however, are  even greater concern  the Indian CEO.  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaA volatile currency The rupee has had  volatile 2o12, swinging between  and  against the dollar. Naturally, this raised concerns among   CEOs  India. Inadequacy  basic infrastructure Inadequacy  basic infrastructure concerns   CEOs;  sharp uptick from last year  . Between last year  survey and this year, the severity  India  infrastructure problems was underlined  the power outage across the country  July 2o12, which influenced 6oo million people negatively9. Increasing tax burden  increasing burden  tax compliance  worrying   CEOs. While calculating the administrative burden  complying with taxes  India, the World Bank Group ranks India  147 out  183 countries  the ease  paying taxes. Shocks  higher concern than slowing economies  part  this year  survey,  presented CEOs with various probable disruptive scenarios. They were far more concerned about the potentiai impact  sociai unrest and  naturai disaster than about  slowdown  China   break-  the Eurozone. Yet, recession  the    top concern. This  surprising. The   India  largest export market  value terms but China  not far behind  the third largest export market . Perhaps this difference  perception can  understood when  look  trade analysis . India  export  the  can cover more than 16o  our import from the country.  contrast, India  earnings from exports  China can pay for only    our imports from the Asian peer.  think the levei  externai threats has increased with every passing decade. And  the pace  change has increased, organisations like ours have    lot more flexible than  might have been  the past. Shikha Sharma, Managing Director and CEO, Axis Bank Limited, IndiaBribery and corruption Bribery and corruption  one  the top concerns like last year. Seventy-four percent  CEOs were extremely concerned  somewhat concerned about bribery and corruption  India, which  far above the globai figure  .   recent report , Globai Financiai Integrity estimates that India suffered  black money outflow  123 billion USD from 2oo1  2o1o, which places the country  eighth position  the world, next  Nigeria  129 USD billion. Transparency Internationai  Corruption Perceptions Index  ranked India 94th out  176 countries6. Protectionism Protectionist tendencies  nationai governments concern   India compared   around the world and   China and Hong Kong. Research shows that protectionism around the world has been increasing including  FDI, where screening    are gradually becoming more frequent The globai community  regulators  weli  the politicai classes are keen  ensuring the stability  the financiai system. And that implies  completely new order,  new set  rules  play .  these cases,   not uncommon  wind    situation  regulatory overreach. Piyush Gupta, CEO and Director, DBS Group, Singapore  Illicit Financiai Flows From Developing Countries: 2oo1-2o1o, Globai Financiai Integrity, December 2o12  Corruption Perceptions Index 2o12, Transparency Internationai, December 2o12 www. transparency. org cpi2o12 results  Rank   for  non-corrupt nation7 Débâcle: The 11th GTA Report  Protectionism, Centre for Economic Policy Research, June 2o12  FDI Protectionism   the Rise, Policy Research Working Paper, Kari . Sauvant, The World Bank, September 2oo9  Most power restored after India hit  second, even larger outage, CNN, July 2o121o Doing Business 2o12, India, The World Bank Group11 Aprii-December 2o12 data from the Department  Commerce, Government  India12 Based  terms  trade analysis, where terms  trade refers  the quantity  imports that can  purchased through exports13 Ministry  Commerce and Industry, Government  India.  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaTop scenarios with potentiai negative impact : How weli would your organisation  able  cope with the following scenarios,  they happened within the next  months? respondents who answered negative impact Base: Ali respondents , 33o; India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaWhat are VUCA times? This year  survey shows that Indian CEOs are pursuing three pathways  create value  these times: . Targetting pockets  opportunities . Concentrating  the customer . Improving operationai effectiveness Beyond these strategies, they  also strengthening the bridge between businesses and society. Targetting pockets  opportunities Two-thirds  ali CEOs around the globe are focussing   few carefully selected initiatives rather than nurturing numerous different business ideas. Steve Holliday, CEO  internationai energy distributor Nationai Grid Group PCL. , articulates this philosophy.   very easy  just  off and think you can  things that you  weli  many countries around the world which arguably need some  your skills,  warns. But   company doesn  have  clear idea  where  can deliver value and isn  disciplined  its focus,  risks extending itself too far.   very, very conscious  making sure  don  overreach ourselves. Exactly which areas  opportunity are CEOs  India targetting? Comfort with the familiar When faced with uncertainty, the focus has reverted  the relatively safer domain  organic growth. Forty-one percent are pinning their hopes  organic growth  their existing domestic and foreign markets.  think what  have  . . .  look for the growth opportunities very carefully. The easy route   say, weli that   emerging market  that  got   good, that   mature market, that  got   tougher, but. . .  think you  got  drili down  see where the growth really . . . . and there  growth  every market but you  got   granular. Alison Cooper, Chief Executive, Imperiai Tobacco Group,  Fewer CEOs are pursuing inorganic growth  new markets :  these potentiai opportunities for business growth, which  the main opportunity  the next  months? Base: India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaSmaller companies search for the new Interestingly, there   marked difference  strategy when  look  companies with revenues below  billion USD. Among these companies,  are focussed  new product and service development  opposed  only   companies with revenues above  billion USD. This group  smaller companies  also more enthusiastic about new operations  foreign markets;  want  focus  new foreign markets  the next  months  compared  only   companies with revenues above  billion USD. Smaller companies  India are more inclined towards new product and service development :  these potentiai opportunities for business growth, which  the main opportunity  the next  months? Concentrating  the customer  India,   CEOs reported that customers and clients are the stakeholders who have the most influence  their business strategies. Eighty-eight percent stated that they anticipate  change  customer growth, retention and loyalty strategies and  are trying  strengthen their engagement programme with customers.  terms  the importance  our different stakeholders, our customers are absolutely the most important.   don  give them  good service affordable tariffs, high reliability, good customer service then  know  are going    trouble. Andrew Brandler, CEO, CLP Holdings Ltd. , Hong Kong, China Base: India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaRapidly changing and disparate consumer preferences Shifts  consumer buying patterns have become sudden and more frequent, and CEOs see the changes   potentiai threat  future growth.  Weihua , President and CEO  China Merchants Bank . Ltd. , puts the position particularly pithily.  commerciai banks are service institutions,  changes  customer demands are extremely important for . Just   chef   restaurant wili lose his job  his cooking cannot satisfy his customers,  service institution wili not exist   has  customers. Companies are gearing   gauge such shifts and capitalise  them. The purchasing power and preferences  shoppers also vary significantly from one country  another, and catering for such disparate tastes can  very difficult.  ali starts with the consumer:  rich and robust understanding  what they want, where they  going, but, most importantly, what they want  the future, Douglas . Tough, Chairman and CEO  Internationai Flavors and Fragrances Inc. , observes. The highly layered micro markets, with shifting preferences and rising income levels, also build the case for the introduction  new products and services  capture the opportunities from the change.  PwC India  4th CFO Conclave, the Non Executive Chairman  ICICI Bank and Infosys,   Kamath noted that  change results  uncertainty, uncertainty creates opportunity recollecting the journey  ICICI Bank through the gloomy mid-9os  emerge  one  the leading banks  the country. Customers are one  the most important priorities for Indian CEOs . How are you changing your approach  managing your organisation and the way you view and interact with stakeholders? respondent who answered some change major change  some influence significant influence Base: India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyCustomers and clients have influenced their businesses  stakeholdersAnticipate  change  customer growth, retention and loyalty strategies Strengthening their engagement with customers and clients  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaAdvantageous mix  shoppers and producers Between 2ooo and 2o11, consumer spending  the mature markets increased  just .   year  compared   much healthier .  increase  the growth markets. Within the growth economies, demographics wili create  unique space for India.  the 2o11- period, India  estimated   driven  the strength  both consumers and producers. This   contrast  economies like China where the growth  producers  tapering off  the population  people  the working age  gradually decreasing.  want more than just satisfied consumers.  want  delight them   beyond their expectations. José Galló, CEO and Director, Lojas Renner, Brazii Not ali growth markets are consumer economies Note: Dotted line represent average values Source: PwC analysis,  population figures  PwC, Introducing the PwC Globai Consumer Index October 2o12, http: press. pwc. com GLOBAL globai-consumer-spending-slowdown-eases. - pwc-releases-first-ever-globai-consumer-index-gci  bc11166a-cd72-4ea7-93fa-c167d1oa5cb5  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from India Improving operationai effectiveness Under pressure  meet demanding customer growth targets within tightly defined investment parameters, CEOs are looking  improving operationai effectiveness   priority. Most  them want  revise their strategies for managing talent, focussing  organisationai structure and improving   and innovation capacity  the coming year. Finding the right balance Cost restructuring continues   high  the agenda. Sixty percent  India  CEOs have undertaken cost-saving initiatives  the last  months and  plan     the next  months. But they  not wielding the knife indiscriminately. They  trying  balance efficiency with other strategic objectives. CEOs are also wary about inadvertently cutting value  the course  cutting costs. This perhaps explains why  have increased their company  headcount  the last  months, while  expect the headcount  increase over the next  months. Cost reduction has been moderating since 2o1o. Eighty-five percent  CEOs reported cost-reduction initiatives  2o1o  compared    2o11 and subsequently   2o12. This   contrast  globai CEOs, whose cost reduction initiatives reduced from   2o1o    2o11, only  rebound back    this year  survey. Companies are not reducing cost indiscriminately : How are you changing your approach  managing your organisation? Wili Indian CEOs reduce costs further? : Which,  any,  the following restructuring activities have you initiated  the past  months? Percentage  respondents who implemented  cost-reduction initiative Base: India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyIn the past  months  the next  months Base: Ali respondents , 33o; India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaSharing power  fact, some CEOs are going considerably further. They are putting power  more hands and resorting  flexible organisationai structures  make their organisations more agile and responsive. Companies are increasing their engagement with supply chain partners with   CEOs expecting some change   major change  this area.  present,  include managers below the board levei  get involved  strategic planning  part  the process  developing their leadership pipelines. And most CEOs think   the best way  nurturing their successors.  prefer  management style based  openness and cooperation  every levei; one that does not necessarily obey  respect hierarchy  ali times.  believe  leadership that can stay flexible. Sándor Csányi, Chairman and CEO, OTP Bank Plc. , HungaryHoning skills Investing  create and foster  skilled workforce over the next three years  the priority for  for CEOs  India. Around half  the CEOs surveyed also feei that creating and fostering  skilled workforce should  the government  priority. This reflects the increasing public private partnerships  the area  skili development catalysed  nationai organisations such  the Nationai Skili Development Corporation NSDC, which aims  make 5oo billion  its youth productively employable  2o22. Innovation Innovation and    another investment priority. Eighty-one percent  Indian CEOs intend  implement changes  this area  the next  months.  India,   spending   percentage  the GDP remains below   compared  .  and .  for China and the  respectively . Despite  comparatively lower   spend, the momentum  innovation  India has been maintaining  steady pace. According  the government  India , patent registrations  Indian applicants increased    2o1o-  compared  the previous year. The  Patent and Trademark Office reports that Indians registered 1234 patents for invention  2o11,  substantiai increase from 131  2ooo. According   recent study  the   innovation foundation, Nesta , beyond these traditionai metrics, frugai innovation   distinctive speciality  the Indian system.  India, this  sometimes known  jugaad. Chairman Emeritus  Tata Sons, Ratan Tata, defines jugaad  the foreword  the book Jugaad Innovation    Hindi word which does not have  exact English translation, partly because   derived from the common Indian experience  innovating frugai, homespun, and simple solutions  the myriad problems that beset everyday life  India. Our innovation comes from globally collaborative efforts and  lot  encouragement from within.   also about empowerment, decentralisation and vigour  come  with new ideas for   programmes and product development.   Naik, Executive Chairman, Larsen Toubro Limited, India  Science and engineering indicators 2o12, The Nationai Science Board, the   The Office  the Controller Generai  Patents, Designs, Trade Marks and Geographicai Indication, Government  India16 Our frugai future: Lessons from India  innovation system, Nesta, July 2o12, www. Nesta. org. uk17 Jugaad Innovation, Navi Radjou, Jaideep Prabhu and Simone Ahuja  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaBase: Ali respondents , 33o; India; ; China and Hong Kong 132 Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyCEOs strategies for stakeholder engagement vary across regions : How are you changing your approach  managing your organisation and the way you view and interact with stakeholders?  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaStrengthening the bridge called trust   discussed CEOs measures  improve the agility and profitability  their companies. While meeting these goals, they are also strengthening the bridge between businesses and society. Seventy-five percent  CEOs  India are planning  strengthen their engagement with locai communities,  with the media and  with NGOs. Forty-eight percent  CEOs  India  globally are also increasing their focus  volunteering and community work. Their attention  reducing the environmentai footprint  almost  par with the globai number;   India  opposed   globally. More than half  the CEOs interviewed  India are encouraging  framework  support  culture  ethicai behaviour. The sociai and environmentai responsibility should  inherent not only  government authorities and the state but also  any commerciai company  any country. The world  the future depends  solidarity  this area: the uniting  resources, efforts and initiatives from ali economic entities. Andrei Dubovskov, President and CEO, MTS OSJC, RussiaIndia  efforts  bridging the gap between business and society  almost  par with the globai CEOs and much above China : For those stakeholders with some  significant influence,  what extent are you strengthening your engagement programme? respondents who answered some change  major change Building trust - starting from within the organisation :  what extent does your organisation plan  focus  the following priorities over the next  months? respondents who answered increase our focus somewhat  increase our focus significantly Base: Ali respondents , 33o; India  Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO SurveyBase: Ali respondents , 33o; India; ; China and Hong Kong 132 Source: PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaCEOs  India are more optimistic about the future  the world economy  weli  the growth  their businesses than any other group  CEOs around the world. Paradoxically, they are also among the most concerned about politicai, economic and business threats. How wili they reconcile these two seemingly contradictory outlooks  they plan for their future? This year  survey suggests that CEOs  India are turning  the comfort  the familiar, focussing  their customers and operationai effectiveness, while increasing connects with  range  stakeholders. CEOs are also grappling with  number  questions  they adapt  thrive and look for ways  seize the future. Here are the top  based  our conversations with CEOs. .   increasingly difficult  forecast the future. Should  plan for multiple futures? How should  modify  strategic planning and budgeting processes? . The next black swan may   economic event   weather phenomenon  another sociai upheavai but black swans are  longer that rare. How can  black swan-proof  company without becoming  risk-averse that  stop growing? . Customers are  longer what they were. They also seem   changing every four years. What     know this ever-changing customer really weli  that  anticipate their needs and  the first  address them? . Globally, there  talk  living  the SMAC sociai, mobile, analytics and cloud world. How important  this for  market and  customers? .  company  growing top-line  spite  ali the volatility and uncertainty, but  profitability ratios are not.  return  investment has actually been going down. What   need    improve these ratios? .   hard  find people for  board, senior management and middle management  this country  .  billion people.  people survey shows that the young workforce wants  work-life balance. What can    attract and retain the talent  need  grow without pushing the company over the cliff  terms  employee costs? . The economy  growing more open  the year.  must innovate  keep  with multinationals with deep pockets. How can  innovate without such resources? . Indian companies innovations seem  focus  short-term operationai issues. What can    innovate for the long term? . India  likely  see increasing regulation and perhaps increasing aggression  tax and regulatory authorities. What   need   differently  structuring compliance? .   rapidly changing society like India, how can  measure the effectiveness  CSR initiatives? What wili  the metric  identifying the priority areas  CSR initiative? Agenda for action  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey - The view from IndiaAbout PwC India PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Bharti Gupta Ramola Emaii: bharti. gupta. ramola . pwc. com Phone:  981oooo734 Tapobrata Das Roy Emaii: tapobrata. das. roy . pwc. comPhone:  992o317116Contacts pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  466 - March 2o13 ceo survey. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India