Title: pwc_home-improvement-the-building-and-home-products-industry
Date Published: 2013-09-06 15:10:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_home-improvement-the-building-and-home-products-industry.pdf
Word Count: 2778
Sentence Count: 256
Average Sentence Length: 17.19

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 76
market: 60
growth: 42
construction: 39
tiles: 37
segment: 33
pwc: 31
cement: 30
products: 25
industry: 25
sector: 25
reai: 23
estate: 22
demand: 19
modular: 19
home: 18
building: 16
inr: 16
billion: 16
source: 16

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Home improvement The building and home products industry www. pwc.  September 2o13 The construction industry  Building and home products  The services sector has, over the last few years, accounted for over   India  GDP, and underpinned  significant share  employment creation and growth. Within this, construction has been important, not just for its direct contribution  GDP, but also because  drives demand for  range  manufactured products, from cement  sanitary-ware. Initiatives from the government  support and stimulate this sector would, therefore, have  positive impact  the economy   whole, and the manufacturing sector  particular. Urbanisation has been  growing phenomenon that now extends beyond the metros. The emergence  Census Towns and the noticeable rurban sprawi indicating the shift  the tertiary sector  employment patterns shift,  indicative  changing lifestyles and consumption patterns. Rising income and improvement  standards  living wili create demand for products such  ceramic tiles and sanitary-ware. Growth  the urban middle class  likely  drive demand for modular kitchens  weli  premium bathroom fittings. Our analysis -confirms the growing demand for  range  home products. Despite  generai slowdown  the economy, growth  the construction sector remained strong over the last two years. Growth  the middle class and the persistence  reai estate   favored store  savings, portend weli for reai estate construction going forward.  the medium term, with this underlying demand  weli  increases  disposable income and consumption,  see potentiai for continued growth   range  manufactured products from air conditioning  ceramic tiles and ready-mix concrete. Our objective,  preparing this report,   profile trends  the reai estate construction industry and outline how these wili impact demand for certain manufactured products. Bimai Tanna Leader, Industriai ProductsPwC IndiaPreface  PwC The construction industryChapter  Introduction Construction has been  significant contributor  the economy, accounting for approximately   the GDP.  FY13, this sector grew  .   market prices over the previous year, marginally increasing its share  GDP. After  period  sustained growth, when  seven  the previous nine years economic growth exceeded  per annum, GDP estimates for the year ended March 2o13 FY13 indicated that year--year growth had dropped   decadai low    economic performance  the first few months  FY14 has continued  look weak, leading  concerns related  growth  the short term. Positives include strong household consumption reai growth  household consumption dropped    2o12, though  was over   market prices, and growth  the middle class continues  drive demand. The Nationai Councii for Applied Economic Research NCAER estimates indicate that the middle class grew from  million households  FYo2   million households  FY11, and  further expected  grow   million households  FY16 and 114 million households  FY26 The NCAER findings also illustrate the importance  the middle class  consumption  many products. The segment comprises only   India  population, but owns   cars,   air conditioners and   credit cards  India . The Planning Commission  India2. Nationai Survey  Household Income and Expenditure 2o11- Nationai Councii for Applied Economic Research3. Nationai Survey  Household Income and Expenditure 2o11- Nationai Councii for Applied Economic Research . Census  India, 2o11Figure : Construction sector growth and contribution  GDP Figure : Contribution  construction  segment Figure : Size  the Indian reai estate construction segment INR billion Reai estate construction  India  the last decade, the country has witnessed  significant growth  demand for housing, driven  growth  income and population; this has stimulated growth  the reai estate sector. Typically, commerciai and residentiai construction accounts for     spend  construction  India. Premium reai estate construction  important factor driving the attractiveness  the Indian market  the growing levei  urbanisation  India. Urban India accounted for .   the population  2o11,  from .   2oo1. This implied that the number  urban households grew  over  million during that decade. Consequently, this has spurred demand for new housing  weli  upgrades  the existing urban infrastructure. o1ooo2ooo3ooo4ooo 2o12 2o167.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .        FYo6 FYo7 FYo8 FYo9 FY1o FY11 FY12 FY1343 Infrastructure  Industriai Reai estate Source: Planning Commission Data Book Planning Commission and Services Sector India Budget NICSource: Report  the Working Group  Construction Sector - Planning Commission, PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis Home improvement: The building and home products industry 532 Market share  Market share  Market share Market share Delhi-NCR Mumbai ChennaiBangalor eFigure : Premium reai estate construction  India residentiai and commerciai Figure : Indian reai estate construction project costPremium reai estate construction accounts for approximately     the reai estate construction market  India. This segment  concentrated  the major cities, with Mumbai and Delhi alone accounting for approximately   the market. With reports  slowdown  off-take and build   unsold inventory for premium reai estate  certain markets, premium reai estate construction could face  slowdown  the next few months. The value chain Reai estate construction comprises both product and service elements.   typicai project, approximately two thirds  the project value goes into various manufactured items, with the rest spent  services and labour.  typicai reai estate construction project comprises three parts: Architecturai and engineering   design, comprising master planning, detailing and structurai engineering phases Project management consulting PMC, pertaining  the activities related  project management Construction, comprising civii works, MEP mechanicai, electricai and plumbing services and interiors, fit-outs phases Household consumption grew over   2o12,  current prices  India. Given India  potentiai for growth  the longer term, there  substantiai headroom for growth  many such industries. Trends  reai estate construction  India Within reai estate construction  India, internationai suppliers are sometimes selected for certain aspects    particularly master planning and project management. Brand name, reputation, technicai know-how and experience are the most common factors driving reai estate developers  appoint foreign contractors.  the area  interiors, fit-out and MEP, penetration  internationai suppliers and contractors  increasing, particularly  the premium space. Reai estate developers are beginning  leverage various suppliers for attaining product differentiation. Indian contractors are preferred for construction due  their familiarity with locai conditions and ability  manage costs. Source: Industry discussions, PwC estimatesSource: Industry discussions, PwC analysis  PwCBuilding and home productsChapter  Household consumption grew over   2o12,  current prices  India. Given India  potentiai for growth  the longer term, there  substantiai headroom for growth  many such industries. Growth  the construction sector has, over the last few years, driven growth for  variety  products either used directly  the construction process  complementary  . The intensity  construction  India  stili low  comparison with other countries this  illustrated  the low per capitai usage  key materials used  construction. Figure : Ceramic tiles market segmentation Figure : Ceramic tiles market size and growth INR billion Figure : Cement consumption per capita  2o11  kgs  this section  briefly profile the size, growth and key trends for five building and home product industries, where growth  strongly related  the reai estate and construction. Ceramic tiles The Indian ceramic tiles market size  estimated  have been 172 billion INR  2o12 and  expected  reach 3o1 billion INR  2o16 growing   CAGR  . The Indian ceramic tiles market ranked third globally and accounted for over   the totai globai production  2o12. The organised segment makes  approximately   the sector, and the top eight manufacturers constitute over   the organised market .  large number  smali  medium-scale manufacturers operate  the unorganised segment, mainly through plants  Gujarat. Nearly   the market consists  vitrified tiles . India Building Materials - Anand Rathi . India Building Materials - Anand Rathio5o1oo15o2oo25o3oo35o 2o12 2o163o1 1722o    Wali tiles Floor tiles Vitrified tiles Industriai tiles 1ooo 15oo  ooIndiaSouth AfricaSouth East Asia World China Source: Indian Cement Industry - ARC Financiai ServicesSource: Ceramic Tiles Market India - Netscribes, PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis Home improvement: The building and home products industry . India Building Materials - Anand Rathi . Census  India, 2o111o. Census  India 2o11, India Building Materials - Anand RathiFigure : Per capita consumption  tiles  . metres 2o1o Figure : Distribution  houses  floor materialIndia has one  the fastest growing ceramic tiles markets  the world. Per capita consumption  ceramic tiles  India  only .  square meters  comparison  .  square meters  China, and .  square meters  Saudi Arabia indicating substantiai scope for further growth. The ceramic tiles market  driven  rapid urbanisation and  taste for high-end tiles. The increasing share  pucca houses . .  solid and durable construction; typically  concrete, brick, stone  timber  India and the growing share  tiles used  flooring materiai. The share  pucca households  expected  increase from   2o11    2o21 . The share  tiles used  floor materiai has increased from   2oo1  over   2o11, and  expected  reach   2o21 . Trends  the ceramic tiles market  India Introduction  nanotechnology: Use  nanotechnology helps enhance the shelf life and strength  the tile and can make tiles resistant  dirt and bacteria. These tiles are gaining popularity  areas where hygiene  important, such  hospitals, laboratories, food processing plants, etc. Eco-friendly tiles: Usage  eco-friendly tiles  expected  increase  consumers become more environment-conscious. Recycled eco-friendly tiles are usually made from naturai and renewable substances. Designer tiles and introduction  - tiles: Titles are now becoming  style statement and are used for bedroom and living room walls  weli.  tiles are also being used for outdoor cladding, wali cladding, elevation, etc. Shift towards vitrified tiles: Vitrified tiles, comprising nearly   the ceramic tiles market have witnessed robust growth  the last five years with increasing demand due  their high durability and easy maintenance. Sanitary-ware and bathroom fittings The sanitary-ware and bathroom fittings industry  India together  estimated   valued around  billion INR. The sanitary-ware segment  estimated  have been worth approximately  billion INR while the bathroom fittings segment  estimated  approximately  billion INR  2o12. The Indian sanitary-ware market accounts for   the globai production and ranks second  terms  volume  the Asia-Pacific region.                              1oo 1991 2oo1 2o11 2o21  Mud Wood, bamboo, brick, stone Cement Mosaic, floor tiles Any other materialo. . . . . . . . .  IndiaEgyptChinaMalaysiaSpainBrazilVietnamIranSaudi Arabia     8Wali tiles Floor tilesVitrified tilesIndustriai tiles Source: Ceramic Tiles Market India - Netscribes, Source: Census  India, India Building Materials - Anand Rathi  PwC11. India Building Materials - Anand Rathi, PwC analysis . Sanitaryware Market  India 2o12 - NetscribesThe sanitary-ware market has been growing   CAGR  .  since 2o1o, and this trend  expected  continue through 2o16. The organised segment currently comprises  approximately  the sector. The bathroom fittings market  forecast  grow   CAGR   untii 2o16. The organised segment makes  almost    the market, and  growing faster than the industry average. While the organised sector focuses mainly  middle class and affluent segments  urban areas, the unorganised sector has,  and large, targeted the mass end  the urban market and the rurai areas. With relatively strong demand growth  India over the last five years, various MNCs have entered the market. Figure : Sanitary-ware market size and growth INR billion Figure : Bathroom fittings market size and growth INR billion There   significant growth potentiai  the  the low-cost  entry-levei segment. One  every five urban households, and  even higher proportion  rurai households,  not have  bathroom  latrine emphasising  the tremendous potentiai  expand with rising incomes and pucca houses. Compared with other countries, replacement demand  low  India, and accounts for only   the market . Other factors such  increasing disposable incomes, higher standards  living, and increasing expenditure  beautifying homes and using premium products provide  further impetus  the growth  this segment. 2o12 2o162o32 2o12 2o16 Source: PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis" per the Census data,   urban homes  not have  toilet" Home improvement: The building and home products industry 913. Modular Kitchen Market  India 2o1o -Netscribes ReportFigure : Modular kitchen market size and growth INR billion Figure : Share  organised and unorganised segment  the modular kitchen marketTrends  the sanitaryware and the bathroom fittings market Complete bathroom solutions: Due  the rising popularity  concept washrooms and coordinated sanitary-ware, fittings and accessories, some manufacturers are offering  one-stop shop solution for ali sanitary-ware and fittings requirements. The -store experience has grown  importance, and manufacturers have established 'Experience-Centers', which are one-stop shops where  customer can view  virtuai version  their bathrooms, post renovation. Water conservation technology: Bathrooms constitute the primary source  water and water usage. With increasing environmentai awareness, customers are moving towards eco-friendly sanitary-ware and bathroom fittings that help  the conservation  water. These eco-friendly products offer   savings  water  compared with other products. Solutions such  high efficiency flushing systems, infrared controls, and sensor taps and showers are gaining popularity. Increasing presence  foreign players: Initially, domestic players dominated the market  this segment. However, foreign players are gaining popularity  more and more customers wish  purchase imported products. There have been some tie ups between foreign players and domestic players  this segment. Rise  premium segment products: Indian customers are gradually purchasing more premium and high technology products for their bathrooms due  increase  the spending power. The premium segment  estimated  comprise about  to12  the totai market. Modular kitchens The modular kitchen market  India has been growing   rapid rate, albeit from  low base. According  industry experts, the market was approximately  billion INR  size  2o12, and could grow  about  billion INR  2o16. The market  largely unorganised with the presence  locai and smali players. The unorganised market estimated      the totai includes carpenters making custom-designed kitchens based upon the requirements  the households. Modular kitchens account for  estimated   the organised home interior market . Modular kitchens are largely focused towards the middle-class and affluent households  urban India and offerings are based  functionai practicality, design and appeai. Increase  the number  nuclear families, rise  the number  working couples, higher disposable income, and increased affordability  such offerings are ali factors that have driven awareness levels and increased demand for modular kitchens. Owing  their compact design, modular kitchens provide effective space management and hence are preferred over traditionai kitchen designs. The growing hospitality sector and increase  demand for service apartments has also boosted sales  modular kitchens. Service apartments generally prefer modular kitchens because  their sleek design and standardisation. There has also been  surge  demand from Tier  cities and smaller towns resulting  expansion and foray  major brands into these towns. They account for only about   the overali kitchen equipment and furniture industry. Thus, there  scope for the modular kitchens market  grow.   Organised segment Unorganised segment216o 2o12 2o16Source: PwC analysis Source: Modular Kitchen Market  India - Netscribes  PwCTrends  the modular kitchen market  India European design: There has been  increase  the demand  European style modular kitchens  the design  seen   clutter-free, trendy and modern and the colour palette  subtle compared  Indian kitchens. Key convenience and trendy features: Incorporated lighting, soft closing doors and high end accessories have become common  modular kitchens  India. The current trend includes handle-less doors, soft closing drawers, top open-able glass doors, rust proof and grease resistant counter tops, water-proof cabinets and built- appliances. Pastei shades and wooden finish kitchens are the fastest growing trends  the modular kitchen segment. New players: Severai European companies particularly from Italy, Germany and Austria  weli  the Middle East have recently entered the Indian market. Tie-ups: Companies engaged  the modular kitchen segment are setting  joint ventures with internationai players who are engaged  the similar line  business. Domestic players benefit from the technologicai expertise provided  internationai players. Internationai players are entering the market through tie-ups with domestic firms for the distribution  their products  India. Air-conditioning and cooling systems  per our estimates, the air-conditioning and cooling systems market  India  currently worth INR 155 billion, and  projected  grow   CAGR   through  2o16. The growth  this segment has however witnesses  recent slowdown. The air-conditioning and cooling systems market can  bifurcated into three segments: Room segment consists  wali units Commerciai segment retaii outlets, dairy, pharmaceuticai, chemicals, etc Project segment office complexes, malls, metro raii, airports, hotels, etc The room segment accounts for the largest share, with over   the revenue coming from this segment. Figure : Air-conditioning and cooling market size and growth INR billion Figure : Share  different segments  the air-conditioning and cooling market Project Room Commercial155244 2o12 2o16 Source: PwC analysis Source: PwC analysis16   Home improvement: The building and home products industry 1114. Changing Landscape  Indian Retaii - Jones Lang LaSalle . Cement Production India - Emerging Market Insights . Cement Production India- Emerging Market Insights . Investor Presentation - ACC Figure : Cement production  India MTPA Despite high sales  the room air-conditioning segment  India, penetration  the product  very low, with only .   households owning  air conditioner. This presents  opportunity for the industry  exploit. Increase  penetration wili aid sustained growth momentum. Growth  the project air-conditioning segment  expected  come from increased investment activities from sectors such  hospitality, power, etc. The railway segment  expected  contribute significantly  the growth due  capacity addition  the sector and construction  metro raii  eight locations across India.  the commerciai segment, the need for quality infrastructure  various sectors  expected  drive growth. The organised retaii industry  expected  add over 1oo million square feet  2o15 , and this presents  opportunity for the air conditioning industry. Investments  the cold chain and food processing industries wili directly benefit the commerciai air conditioning segment. Trends  the air-conditioning market Price increase and currency devaluation impact: Drop  the value  the rupee, since January 2o13 has resulted  higher costs for air conditioner manufacturers  India, since many  the components are imported. Further price increases, stemming from continued fali  the value  the rupee, could impact demand and growth  the industry  the short term. Green solutions: Since consumers are growing more environment conscious, companies are introducing air conditioning technologies that reduce emissions  HFCs and CO2. India  one  the first countries,  have introduced -29o and HFC- air conditioners, which are more efficient and economicai. Energy efficient air-conditioning: There   focus  energy-efficient air conditioners. Severai companies have introduced air-conditioners endowed with inverter technology that has  shorter motor run-time and therefore consumes less electricity. Star rating for energy consumption  also followed  India. Ali-year functionality: Some companies are trying  -risk the  business and make their products more weatherproof  adding new features. These include  ali-weather  with heating feature that can  used  the winter. Financing and purchase options:  manufacturers are looking  bring ACs within the reach   much larger percentage  the population. Finance driven sales are estimated  between  and   totai sales  room air conditioners. Growth  variable refrigerant volume systems: Faster growth  VRV systems and inverter based air-conditioning solutions has been witnessed. Cement and ready-mix concrete India  the second largest cement manufacturer  the world after China, accounting for about   globai production . Cement production  India   fragmented industry with more than 15o players  the market. However, the top  producers  cement controi approximately   the domestic market . Since cement   bulky commodity, that  expensive  transport, the market  regionai  nature. The market  divided into five main regions; northern, eastern, western, southern and centrai. The southern region has the highest installed capacity. The eastern region faces  demand-supply gap, which wili lead  capacity additions. The housing sector  the main driver  demand for cement manufacturing, with approximately   cement production directed towards housing construction . 24o316 2o12 2o16Project RoomCommerciai Source: PwC analysis  PwC19. Indian Cement Industry - ARC Financiai Services . Project Profile  Ready Mix Concrete Plant  Kerala - Kerala State Industriai Development Corporation . Projects info22. India Cement ReviewDespite India being the second largest cement manufacturer  the world, the per capita consumption for cement,  185  per annum,  weli below the world average  48o  . The low per capita consumption indicates the potentiai for growth  the cement industry  India. Recently the cement industry  witnessing  slowdown due  subdued capitai investments  the industriai sector and delays  execution  infrastructure projects. Figure : Cost break-  RMC Figure : Cement production  variety Ready-mix concrete Ready-mix concrete  India  stili   nascent stage   consumes only around   the totai cement production.  developed nations, RMC accounts for     cement production . The current market size  RMC  estimated   billion INR   billion INR . Current production  RMC  around    million cubic meters  year, and  terms  volume, the market  growing  the rate     . Since the demand for RMC  expected  grow significantly over the next few years, severai players have forayed into the segment. Though the penetration  RMC  higher  the metropolitan cities  compared  ali the India average, there  scope for further penetration  RMC  smaller cities due  expected infrastructure development.  present, there are approximately 38o ready mix concrete plants  India. Challenges  the ready-mix concrete segment Higher costs: Ready-mix concrete  slightly more expensive than site mixed concrete due  transportation costs and usage  additives. However,  the long run,   expected that increase  the usage  RMC wili lead  more cost savings  there   decrease  overali wastage  usage  RMC.  additionai cost factor  the cost  setting   plant near the construction site. Since RMC cannot  transported over long distances, the plant needs   within two hours travei distance  the travei site; high reai estate prices  urban areas increase the cost  setting   operating  RMC plant.  the other hand, increasing urban congestion makes the use  RMC more attractive vis--vis site-mix  there  less pollution and noise  the construction site. Sand availability: Due  the recent ban  illegai mining  sand and depletion  sand resources, sand prices have increased substantially  the past few months.  some cities, the prices  sand have increased over   the last year. Transportation: The materials for RMC are mixed   centrai plant,  the travelling time from the plant  the site  criticai. Some sites are far away and RMC has  limited time span before  hardens. Transportation time for RMC should ideally not exceed two hours. Taxes: Taxation  another major deterrent since RMC manufacturers have  pay VAT  the concrete, which  not applicable for SMC. Cement Coarse aggregate Cost  production Manufactured sand Taxes Transportation .   AdditivesOrdinary portland cement Portland blast furnance slag Portland pozzolana cement Others37       .  .  .  .  Source: India Cement Sector Report - Emerging Markets Insight India Source: Ready Mix Concrete Business: Operationai  Strategic Choices - IIM Kozhikode Home improvement: The building and home products industry 13Bibliography Planning Commission Data Book - Planning Commission Services Sector - India Budget NICReport  Working Group  Construction Sector - Construction Industry Development CouncilCeramic Tiles Market  India - NetscribesModular Kitchen Market  India - NetscribesCensus  India 2o11 India Building Materials - Anand Rathi World Steei Figures 2o12 - World Steei Association Indian Cement Industry - ARC Financiai Services Air Conditioning Sector - Just Chili - Emkay GlobalIndia Cement Sector Update - Tata ResearchIndia Cement Sector Report - Emerging Markets Insight - IndiaReady Mix Concrete Business: Operationai  Strategic Choices - IIM Kozhikode Acknowledgements Abhishek KakarGayathri PattnamJharna AhujaKanchan ParmarMalvika SinghMuneetpai Singh JollySujata  ChakrabortyCement Coarse aggregate Cost  production Manufactured sand Taxes Transportation .   Additives About Big  Construct India The Big  Construct India   trade event for construction and building products. The launch edition  The Big  Construct India features officiai pavilions from Italy, Germany, , Spain, Turkey, Korea, Canada China.  also have individuai exhibitors from UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Singapore, Thailand, Greece, France, Portugai, Australia, Iran, , Japan, Malaysia Vietnam, not  mention the India which  weli represented with more than 1oo companies.  wide range  products, services and solutions can  found  the show floor. Visit the different stands  see the products live  action and discover how they can make  difference  your operations. About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Bimai Tanna Leader - Industriai Productsbimai. tanna . pwc. com Dushyant Singh Associate Director - Strategydushyant. singh . pwc. com www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo: For externai use only This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - August 2o13 Home improvement. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India