Title: pwc_before-tomorrow-dawns
Date Published: 2013-12-13 10:49:12+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_before-tomorrow-dawns.pdf
Word Count: 3675
Sentence Count: 287
Average Sentence Length: 19.65

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
security: 216
information: 100
respondents: 63
india: 44
organisations: 40
business: 39
threats: 32
incidents: 28
strategy: 27
mobile: 21
number: 20
spending: 20
pwc: 19
management: 19
risks: 19
claim: 18
cloud: 18
services: 18
companies: 17
practices: 17

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Before tomorrow dawns Key findings from the State  Information Security Survey-India www. pwc.  India Information Security Survey 2o14   glance The heart  the matter  Methodology   -depth discussion  Insights from industries P18 What this means for your business P2o Foreword   heartening  note that information security  finding its way  the Board agenda.  increasing number  organisations  India are moving beyond information security basics and exploring new paradigms and models  information security  meet the evolving threat land-scape. The litmus test for  truly exceptionai strategy   make organisations responsive  the needs  today and become better prepared for the challenges  tomorrow.   the case with information security strategy wherein both knowledge and agility are key.  this report,  study the current status  information security  Indian organisations.  analyse information security behaviours, security priorities, security spending, safeguards and security policies implemented  companies  secure their information assets.  also assess and expound  the preparation that organisations  India need have  order  become information security leaders.  always, while information security has its roots  technology, the key drivers  any security culture continue   the people. This survey explores the key issues and challenges with regards  this criticai aspect  information security culture.  are sure this report wili play  important role  helping enterprises strengthen their information security posture.  look forward  your feedback  make our future surveys even more comprehensive and interesting. Information security threats are complicated, complex and damaging. Organizations need  prepare  continuously assessing and evaluating security strategies and practices. Sivarama Krishnan Executive Director PwC IndiaSiddharth Vishwanath Executive Director PwC India Executive summary Confidence  high but true leaders  security are few: While   respondents repose confidence  the effectiveness  their information security activities and  consider themselves front-runners  strategy and security practices, our analysis reveals that only  organisations are reai information security leaders. Security loopholes result  failures: The number  security related incidents detected  the past  months has increased  ,  indication  the elevated threat environment today.   troubling that over one- third  the respondents claim  have learnt  these from externai sources, such  customers  service providers. This may  due  continued investment  organisations  traditionai information security products  safeguards rather than  new ones. Spending may not   right direction: Over  respondents claim that their security policies and security spending are aligned with business objectives, with  reporting security budgets  more than five million USD. There   sharp increase  the number  security incidents and resultant financiai losses are  the rise. This contradicts the belief that organisations are becoming more adept  detecting intrusions. ,  fact, suggests that the security models  use may either  broken  ineffective. New technologies are implemented without security: Enterprise mobility and cloud services are gaining greater traction within organisations  India. Information security for mobile devices and cloud services, however, lags behind adoption rates. Less than   respondents claim fundamentai information security controls for mobile security and even less than  have policies addressing the use  mobile phones. Information security lacks management support: Nearly   respondents report that leadership and strategy are the two most common obstacles  effecting  strong information security function within their organisations. Thus, information security  many organisations  stili not  foundationai component  the business strategy, one that  championed  senior management, the CEO and the Board. Lack  focus  the reai intruders: Insider threats are rising. Insiders, particularly current  former employees, are cited  security threats  almost   respondents. Lack  solutions around behaviourai profiling and event management adds  the problem. Many organisations  not yet have plans for responding  insider threats. The information security spending  stili more focussed  externai factors, such  client and regulatory requirements.  PwCThe heart  the matter Indian businesses are confident about their security posture, but are ili-prepared for the future. While traditionai concepts  security help establish rudimentary foundations, everchanging threats necessitate that businesses look beyond. Indian companies have been focussing  compliance based and perimeter oriented security strategies. While they have proved   usefui  the past, these strategies alone wili not  able  meet challenges posed  adversaries leveraging the threats and technologies  tomorrow. The intruders have become more sophisticated:  moving  from dated perimeter attackes  ones which are highly targeted and difficult  pre-empt. Interestingly, the attack surface partners, suppliers, customers and others has expanded with the ease  staying connected. Adversaries are breaching the defences  business ecosystems and are leaving reputationai, financiai and competitive damages  their wake. Respondents  The State  Information Security Survey India, 2o14 appear   distant from ground reality. More than 62o executives across  industries who responded  the survey, were confident about their organisation  information security practices, some even believing that they  leading. More than half   the respondents see their organisation   front-runner. While organisations have raised the bar  security, their adversaries have made sure they are  step ahead. This year  survey shows that there    jump  the number  incidents reported this year and average financiai losses have gone     India compared  the globai average  .  majority  organisations are clearly underprepared  deai with the vulnerabilities and threats around new technologies and business models. Security, which needs    foundationai component  business strategy, particularly   elevated threat environment, stili goes begging for top management  sponsorship  most organisations.   clear that organisations have not been able  keep pace with today  escalating risks and there   long way   before they are able  manage impending threats. Before tomorrow dawns 5Methodology The survey was conducted using  structured questionnaire, administered online. PwC clients from across the country were invited via emaii  take the survey. This survey was conducted parallely with PwC  globai survey titled The Globai State  the Information Security Survey 2o14. The results discussed  this report are based  responses from more than 62o CEOs, CFOs, CISOs, CIOs, CSOs, vice presidents, and directors   and information security across  industries. The margin  error  less than . Ali figures and graphics  this report were sourced from survey results. The State  Information Security Survey 2o14, India   its sixth edition. Key attributes  the survey are: Respondents have been clubbed into four major industry verticals: CIPS consumer, industriai products and services, TICE technology, information, communications and entertainment,  financiai services, the government and others. Maximum responses have been received from CIPS  respondents followed  the TICE  group. Majority  the respondents  are from medium and large enterprises. Around  respondents represent senior management from business and . Respondents: Industry wise       CIPS TICE Manufacturing Others Govt. Respondents: Title wise      CEO, CFO, COO CISO, CSO, CIO, CTO Compliance, Risk, Privacy  Security Mgmt  Security Other     Non-profit Gov Edu Smali 1ooM Medium 1ooM- 1Bn Large 1Bn  not KnowRespondents: Size  company wise  PwCAn -depth discussion Indian executives rate the effectiveness  their information security strategies very highly. But, closer scrutiny reveals that they lack preparedness  meeting impending security threats Confidence  high but true leaders  security are few While   respondents repose confidence  the effectiveness  their information security activities and  consider themselves front- runners, our analysis reveals that only   the organisations can  called information security leaders. The State  Information Security Survey- India, 2o14 reveals that the overali confidence  information security practices  India has jumped from the previous year with more than  respondents claiming   confident about their organisation  security. This  striking considering the climate  escalating and evolving risks.  similar trend has been observed globally with nearly  respondents claiming   confident  their security practices,  significant increase from the previous year. Interestingly, among the executives, both business CEOs and security leaders CISOs, repose high confidence  their organisations security practices. Confidence  organisations security          Very confident Somewhat confident Not veryconfident Not  allconfidentDo not knowIndia 2o12 India 2o13 Confidence  the information security practices  also palpable with more and more executives claiming that their information security program  aligned with business objectives both  terms  policies and spending.  respondents this year compared   respondents last year claim that they have either fully  partially completed the alignment  security policies with the business objectives. Similarly,  compared   respondents from the previous year claim that their security spending  aligned with business objectives. This indicates that the respondents clearly understand that security  integrai  the business agenda and can add immense value  business goals. This positivity around security posture also gets reflected  the way respondents assess their approach  information security.   encouraging  note that  large number  executives claim that their organisations have crossed the chasm between having  effective information security strategy  place and proactively executing the strategy. This year  respondents that say they have the attributes   front-runner, have risen  from the previous year. About one  three  say they have the strategy right but may not have been able  successfully execute the plan. These  cali the strategists. Those who consider themselves better  getting things done than defining  effective strategy are the Tacticians which account for   the respondents. And the group that can  aptly described  firefighters, the ones who  not have  strategy  place and are typically   reactive mode, constitute   the respondents. Before tomorrow dawns 7How respondents characterize their approach  information security Strategists  are better  getting the strategy right than  are  executing the plan TacticiansWe are better  getting things done than  are  defining  effective strategy FirefightersWe  not have  effective strategy  place and are typically   reactive modeFront-runnersWe have  effective strategy  place and are proactive  executing the plan57   closer look  the data through the lens   series  requirements that define true leaders  the basis  reported capabilities rather than self perception reveals that there are far fewer reai leaders than front-runners.  qualify  leaders, the respondents must: Have  overali information security strategy Employ  chief information security officer CISO   equivalent who reports  top leadership: the CEO, CFO, COO, CRO,  the legai counsei Have measured and reviewed the effectiveness  their security measures within the past year Understand exactly what type  security events have occurred  the past year Based  these requirements,  understand that those who claim   front-runners are not necessarily leaders. Filtering  the basis  this criteria, only   ali survey respondents rank  security leaders. This compares favorably with   the respondents globally. Compared with the front-runners, these leaders have  significantly better understanding and controi over information security risks. They detect more security problems; have  better understanding  what types  security issues occur and the source  those issues and report lower average financiai losses   result  security incidents. Front-runners . leaders     Front-runners LeadersIndia 2o13 Globai 2o13  PwCSecurity loopholes result  failure  define  security incident  any adverse incident that threatens some aspect  computer security. The number  incidents detected  the past  months has increased  , which  perhaps  indication  today  elevated threat environment.   troubling that over one-third  the respondents claim  have learnt  the security problems from externai sources, such  customers  service providers. This may  due  the organisation  continued investments  the traditionai information security products  safeguards rather than focusing  new ones. This year  survey results reveai that there   rise  the number  security issues reported  the respondents for the past  months. This  significantly higher than the  jump reported globally  the number  security incidents for the same period. This increase could also imply that organisations are getting better  identifying incidents. But the fact that one-third  the respondents claim that they have learnt  incidences from externai sources, such  customers and service providers, raises questions  the effectiveness  internai intrusion detection platforms and processes with the organisations. This implies that companies need  deploy more robust internai system led controls for  early detection  such incidents. Average number  security incidents 2o12 2o12 2o13 2o13 India Globai India Global26o529895146 Sources  information  security incidents      Security - monitoring software Analysis  server  firewali files and logs Data loss prevention DLP system Managed service provider Customer Reported security incidents involve exploits across ali platforms. While companies report lesser number  exploits  removable storage, sociai engineering and paper based information,   likely these may  going -reported  -detected. There    increase  the number  respondents reporting the incidents involving exploits  mobile devices. Types  security incidents           Data exploited Mobile device . . , smart phone, tabletcomputer exploited Application exploitedSystem exploitedNetwork exploitedIndia 2o12 India 2o13 Before tomorrow dawns 9It  interesting  note that  majority  respondents report that compromising data involving employee and customer records  significant when compared  the company  theft. Every year, respondents claim that the employee and customer data  the most valuable information for them. With the increasing number  breaches however,  appears that these are not  integrai  their information security plans  they claim them  . This suggests that the current data protection efforts are not focused  the right direction. Data loss  account  security incidents       CIPS TICE Manufacturing Others Govt. The business impact  such security incidents  manifold. Most respondents believe that the impact  these incidents extends beyond financiai and reputationai losses and more often than not results  the loss  customers. Business impact  security incidents       Financiai lossesBrand reputationcompromised Theft  soft intellectuai property . . , information such  processes, institutionai knowledge, etc. Loss  customersLoss  shareholder valueTheft  hard intellectuai property information such strategic businessplans, deai documents, sensitive financiai documents, etc.  PwCSpending may not   right direction Over   the respondents claim that their security policies and their security spending are aligned with the business objectives.   the respondents report security budgets  more than  five million USD. There   sharp increase  the number  security incidents and the resultant financiai losses are also  the rise. This contradicts the belief that organisations are becoming more adept  detecting intrusions.   fact suggests that the old security models that are stili  use may  broken  ineffective. The substantiai increase  security spending argues weli for the security efforts. Irrespective  the company size, industry and risk profile there   overali increase  investments for security. Interestingly, there has been  1oo increase  the number  respondents reporting security spending  more than five million USD. This  particularly significant  the number  large and medium enterprises surveyed  not very different from the previous year, which means that more organisations are making greater capitai and operationai expenditure for security. Totai information security budget, 2o13          Low USD 1oo, ooo Medium USD 1oo, ooo  USD  million High USD  million India 2o12 India 2o13 Globai 2o13 Organisations are optimistic about  the future.  spite   difficult economic environment,   the respondents expect their information security spending  increase over the next  months. However,  stili expect   remain the same. Only   respondents from India indicate  cut down  information security spending. Security spending over the next  months             Increase Stay the Same Decrease Don' KnowIndia 2o12 India 2o13 Globai 2o13 Before tomorrow dawns 11While most respondents claim high spends  securing information security assets,  significant gap appears  the investments made and the outcomes achieved. There   whopping  jump  the average losses  account  security incidents  India  the past  months. This  significantly higher than  increase  losses reported globally for the same time period. This  indicative  priorities gone wrong  adversaries getting smarter  break into traditionai defenses. Financiai losses  , ooo USD  more         , ooo  , 999 1oo, ooo  499, 999 5oo, ooo  999, 999  Mn2o12 Interestingly, over-reliance  professionai judgment rather than hard facts  arrive   focussed plan based  measurement  effectiveness  information security spending may  clouding  directing spends into less beneficiai avenues. Very few respondents claim  use scientific and  objective measures  arrive  spending plans. Factors for measuring effectiveness  security spending       Professionai judgment Return  investment ROI Totai cost  ownership Reduced security incidents breaches Improvement againstsecurity metrics Payback periodNet present valueInternai rate  returnLack  regulatory findings Lack  audit findings India 2o13  PwCNew technologies implemented without security Enterprise mobility and cloud services are gaining greater traction with organisations  India. Yet, information security for mobile devices and cloud services lags behind adoption rates. Less than   the respondents claim that their organisations have fundamentai information security controls for mobile security and even less than  have policies addressing use  mobile phones.  key risk  data security  the surge  the use  mobile devices such  smartphones and tablets,  weli  the bring your own device BYOD trend. India ranks fifth among the top countries for smartphone users with  estimated  million subscribers  2o13, after China, the , Japan and Brazii. With the increasing penetration  smartphones  the country, there has been  significant rise  the adoption  enterprise mobility. This growth trend  BYOD adoption  expected  become stronger  the coming years.   reported that adoption  BYOD  deepest  India, where over   workers  2o13 are using personai devices  from   2o11.   clear that are lagging  security practices  covering enterprise mobility adoption  the country. Only  respondents claim  have  mobile security strategy and less than half the respondents report having mobile device management MDM software and authentication  devices. Initiatives  address mobile security risks                Mobile security strategy Mobile device- management softwareBan  user-owneddevices  the workplace network access Protection  corporatee-maii and calendaringon employee-and user-owned devices Strong authenticationon devices India 2o12 India 2o13 Globai 2o13 While the use  mobile devices  share and transmit data continues  increase, deployment  information security controls lags behind the growing usage  smartphones and tablets. For customers facing mobility applications, respondents report having secured mobile application development and advanced authentication related controls. However, few respondents have used penetration testing and dedicated intrusion and prevention technologies. This signifies that externally exposed applications could  vulnerable  threats not contemplated  part  the security strategy. Security controls for customer facing mobility applications           Isolation  memory  the mobile appDedicated intrusion and prevention technologiesMemory  securely cleared when app  closedPenetration testingEncryption  sensitive data  the mobile appA unique set  network and firewali policiesBasic authenticationTransport encryptionStrong authenticationSecure mobile app development Before tomorrow dawns 13Cloud services adoption  India   the rise. There has been   rise  the number  respondents reporting  have used cloud services  their organisation. Organisations  India are ahead  their globai peers  the use  cloud services. Seventy-three per cent respondents using cloud services have access  SaaS Software   Service platform. Use  cloud service and type  cloud services    Use cloud servicesIndia 2o12 India 2o13 Globai 2o13    IndiaInfrastructure-- service IaaS Software -- service SaaS Platform-- service PaaS Other Respondents believe that inability  enforce security policies  the provider  end  the single biggest challenge for cloud security. They also make indirect reference  the lack  training and auditing   risk for cloud security. Greatest risks  cloud security       Uncertain ability toenforce securitypolicies   provider site Inadequate training and ITauditing Questionableprivilegedaccess controlat provider siteUncertainability torecover dataUncertain continuedexistence ofprovider Uncertain providerregulatory compliance  PwCAlarmingly, despite the awareness around security threats  mobility and cloud technologies only  smali percentage  organisations have incorporated these  their security policies. This  also telling  the fact that while only  organisations  India have policies governing cloud services, nearly double the number expect   able  enforce policies  partner end  mitigate risks, losing sight  the adage that service starts  one  own doorstep. Globally again only   organisations have covered cloud security  part  their information security policies. Inclusions  security policy     Use  mobile devices Use  socialnetworking media Use  consumerdevices  the enterprise networkUse  consumer cloud services Before tomorrow dawns 15Information security lacks management support Nearly   respondents report that leadership and strategy are the two most common obstacles  establishing  strong information security function within their organisations. Thus, information security  many organisations  stili not  foundationai component  the business strategy, one that  initiated  senior management, the CEO and the board. While most security stakeholders agree that action needs   taken  improve information security, there appears   little consensus about the challenges  doing . Nevertheless, the most significant challenges  improving information security are centred around the lack  adequate leadership focus, weli-designed information security strategy and  actionable vision  how future business needs impact information security.  stated earlier, the litmus test for  effective strategy    able  cater  the needs  the future while addressing the requirements  today. Currently, information security strategies  any, are focussed  countering today  threats and that too through traditionai practices  ring-fencing. Organisations  India  not report being challenged with funding, both capitai expenditure and operating expenditure, for information security. Globally, organisations cite this  one  the major hindrances  information security effectiveness. Nearly   the respondents  India claimed that their organisations had  senior executive   CEO, CFO, COO, etc. who proactively communicated the importance  information security  the entire organisation. This  indicative  the fact that while there  significant understanding  the issues around information security  the top management, there are concerns  terms  senior leadership backing the implementation  information security plans. Obstacles  improving information security        Leadership Lack   effective information security strategy Lack   actionable vision  understandingof how future business needs impact information security Insufficient capitalexpenditures Insufficient operatingexpenditures Absence  shortage   house technicalexpertise Poorly integratedor overly complexinformation and  systems  PwCLack  focus  the reai intruders: Insider threats are  the increase Insiders, particularly current  former employees, are cited   source  security incidents  almost   the respondents. Lack  solutions around behaviourai profiling and event management adds  the problem. Yet, many organisations  not have plans for responding  insider threats. Even today, justification for information security spending  more focussed  externai factors, such  client and regulatory requirements. Most respondents attribute security incidents  every day insiders like current employees  and former employees . Many see these insider threats  far more significant than externai threats.  the externai threats, while attacks backed  nation-states make headlines, organisations are more likely   hit  hackers. Only   respondents report security incidents committed  foreign nation states. Hackers   represent  much more likely danger. Likely internai and externai sources  incidents       Current employeesFormer employeesCurrent serviceproviders consultants contractorsFormer service providers consultants contractors Suppliers business partnersCustomers         HackersCompetitorsInformation brokersActivists activist organisations hactivistsOrganized crimeTerroristsForeign entities and organizationsForeign nation states Respondents could select more than one source  incidents Before tomorrow dawns 17In order   responsive  the threats posed  intruders, companies  India need  devise strategies and tactics keeping  mind the reai motivators and the impact  each  these actors. Motivation, vector and impact  threat actors Motivators Threat vectors Impact Globai competition Nationai security Fraud Targeted, long-term cyber campaigns with strategic focus Insider Third-party service providers Loss  intellectuai property Disruption  criticai infrastructure Monetary loss Regulatory Ideologicai Politicai Disenfranchised Malicious havoc Opportunistic vulnerabilities Insider Third-party service providers Destabilize, disrupt and destroy cyber assets  financiai institutions Regulatory Illicit profit Fraud Identify theft Individuai identity theft Data breaches and intellectuai property theft Insider Third-party service providers Loss  identity Monetary loss Intellectuai property loss Privacy Regulatory Politicai cause rather than personai gain Ideologicai Targeted organizations that stand  the way  their cause Insider Third-party service provider Disruption  operations Destabilization Embarrassment Public relations RegulatoryNation-states Cyber criminals Cyber terrorists individuai hackers HacktivistsLines between the threats are blurring India seems   losing its focus  reai intruders.   lagging  its adoption  certain key safeguards that wili enable   meet the threats  today and tomorrow. Less than half the respondents perform behaviourai profiling and monitoring, deploy security information and event management technologies and have protection detection management solutions for advanced persistent threats APTs. These technologies are focused  reai internai and externai intruders. India Centralized user data store  Behaviorai profiling and monitoring  Intrusion detection tools  Asset management tools  Use  virtuai desktop interface  Security information and event management SIEM technologies48  PwCInsights from industries , CIPS and TICE behaving distinctly  companies, regular front- runners  security management practices, continue  focus  maintaining security leadership  companies lead  deployment  security tools and integrating security right from the project inception stage. This gets reflected  the lesser downtime experienced  these  financiai services respondents say complex, rapidly evolving, and sophisticated technologies such  high-frequency trading systems pose  significant challenge for the future success  their organization  information security.  companies overali. However,  companies need  focus  security strategies for new technologies like mobile phones etc. Financiai services companies are spending more  information security than ever before and have improved many  their security practices. Our research indicates that regulatory compliance  stili  significant driver  security spend  the industry. Yet incidents continue  occur   result  unprecedented attacks, ranging from distributed deniai  service  APTs  significant number  financiai institutions are seeking externai help for risk assessments. Compared  globai peers more Indian financiai services organisations are using third party vulnerability assessors  help them  identification  gaps and consequent strengthening  information security. Actions taken  strengthen security  past  months         Hired  outsourced   third-partyvulnerability assessor Voluntarily conductedregular penetrationtestsConducted penetration tests  required  regulators Identified and trackednew threats and vulnerabilitieson  quarterly basis India  2o13 Globai  2o13 Before tomorrow dawns 19CIPS companies are working  enhancing their capabilities  security strategies and practices CIPS companies are increasingly adopting security best practices. Most continue  make investments and establish practices around weli defined strategies, structures and safe guards. Data privacy   area that  needs enhanced focus.  respondents from CIPS companies claim that they are either prepared  somewhat prepared for data protection  cloud and third party environments.  respondents claim that they either have  are planning  implement  secured supply chain solution.   CIPS respondents have physicai access and monitoring controls for securing point  sales POS systems. Means  secure POS systems     Physicai access andmonitoringcontrolsEncryption  sensitive cardholderdata  theread head point--pointencryption Tokenization Other Pleasespecify India 2o13 Interestingly only  3rd  CIPS respondents have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans.  equai number confirm that information security becomes involved  major initiatives  project inception stage. This implies immense scope for improvement for these companies.  are optimistic  increases  information security spending  the coming year. This forebodes weli for the sector. TICE industries exhibit emerging leadership  information security management TICE industries report  strong alignment and continuing investments  information security areas. TICE industries also lead other sectors  establishment  security safeguards, including new technology related safeguards. This   keeping with India  pre-eminent position  the world  leader  information technology services. The primary driver  security spending for TICE industries  mitigation  identified weaknesses implying higher self direction. TICE industries clearly understand that need  stay ahead  the curve  maintain their pre-eminence  the country  flagship growth sector. Primary drivers  spending Mitigation  identified security weaknesses and incidents . . , malware outbreaks, network  systems intrusion, data loss, etc. Compliance with regulations, laws, and policies Support for innovation and modernization initiatives such  the smart grid  not know61    More Indian TICE companies  have  unified controi  enterprise risk management framework addressing cyber security risks. This compares favorably with  globally. TICE companies  India are proactive  establishing and imbibing globai practices  counter any information security risks.  fact,  large swathe  TICE companies report having advanced protection against APTs. Presence  unified controi  enterprise risk management framework       Yes   not knowIndia 2o13 Globai 2o13  PwCYesterday  security defenses are not effective against today  rapidly evolving threats. And the risks  tomorrow- uncertain  best and perilous  worst wili demand  completely new modei  information security.  suggest  evolved approach  what security can , one that  driven  knowledge  threats, assets and adversaries. One  which security incidents are seen   criticai business risk that may not always  preventable, but can  managed  acceptable levels.  cali this modei Awareness  Action.  its most basic, this approach comprises four key precepts: Security   business imperative: Effective security requires that you understand the exposure and potentiai business impact associated with operating   interconnected globai business ecosystem.  integrated security strategy should   pivotai part  your business modei; security   longer simply   challenge. Security threats are business risks: You should view security risks  organisationai threats.   criticai  anticipate these threats, know your vulnerabilities, and  able  identify and manage the associated risks. Ensure that suppliers, partners and other third parties knowand agree  adhere toyour security policies and practices. Protect the information that really matters: Effective security requires that you understand and adapt  changes  the threat environment  identifying your most valuable information. Know where these crown jewels are located and who has access  them  ali times, and proficiently allocate and prioritise your organisation  resources  protect its most valuable information. Gain advantage from Awareness  Action:  this new modei  information security, ali activities and investments should  driven  the best-available knowledge about information assets, ecosystem threats and vulnerabilities, and business- activity monitoring. You should create  culture  security that starts with commitment  top executives and cascades  ali employees and third parties. Engage  public-private collaboration with others for enhanced threat intelligence. Security   board-levei business imperative Advance your security strategy and capabilities.  integrated security strategy should   pivotai part  your business modei; security   longer simply   challenge. You should understand the exposure and potentiai business impact associated with operating   interconnected globai business ecosystem. Board and CEO drive security governance. Security risks are operationai risks and should  reviewed regularly  the board. Strong support and communication from the board and CEO can break down traditionai silos, leading  more collaboration and partnerships. Strong multi-party governance group should manage security risk.  executive with direct interaction with the CEO, Generai Counsei and Chief Risk Officer should lead security governance. Security governance group should include representatives from legai, , risk, technology, security, communications, and the lines  business. The cybersecurity governance group should meet regularly monthly  quarterly  discuss the current threat landscape, changes within the organization that impact risk levels, and updates  remediation programs and initiatives. What this means for your business? Before tomorrow dawns 21Security threats are business risks Security program  threat-driven and assumes  continuous state  compromise. Security risks are among the top  operationai risks. Adopt the philosophy   assumed state  compromise, focusing  continuous detection and crisis response  addition  traditionai  security focus  protection and mitigation. Security risks include theft  intellectuai property, attacks  brand, and sociai media. You should anticipate threats, know your vulnerabilities, and  able  identify and manage the associated risks. Focus  your adversaries: who might attack the business and their motivations. Ensure cooperation among third parties. Proactively make certain that suppliers, partners, and other third parties know and agree  adhere  your security practices. Protect the information that really matters Identify your most valuable information. Know where these crown jewels are located and who has access  them. Allocate and prioritize resources  protect your valuable information. Establish and test incident-response plans Incident response should  aligned  ali levels within the organization. Incident response should integrate technicai and business responses. Response  aligned  ali levels  integrating the technicai response led   and business response led  business with input from legai, communications, the senior leadership team, and . Security incident response should  tested using reai-world scenarios. Improve planning and preparedness through table- top simulations  recent industry events and likely attack scenarios. Frequently conduct table-top simulations. Response  various attack scenarios and crisis should  pre-scripted   play book format. Gain advantage through Awareness  Action Security program  threat-driven and assumes  continuous state  compromise. Ali activities and investments should  driven  the best- available knowledge about information assets, ecosystem threats and vulnerabilities, and business-activity monitoring. Organizations should create  culture  security that starts with commitment  top executives and cascades  ali employees. Organizations should engage  public-private collaboration with others for enhanced threat intelligence.  can help you understand the implications  this new approach  information security and apply the concepts  the unique needs  your business, your industry and your threat environment. Let  show you how  effectively combat the security threats  today and plan for those  tomorrow. PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 coun - tries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc ContactsAbout PwC Siddharth Vishwanath Executive Director Anirban Sengupta Associate Director Priti Ray Associate Director priti. ray . pwc. comSivarama Krishnan Executive Director Sundareshwar Krishnamurthy Associate Director Manu Dwivedi Associate Director www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  1o1 - October 2o13 Before tomorrow dawns. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India