Title: Managing in uncertain times: HR at a crossroads
Date Published: 2013-06-20 00:59:32-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_managing-in-uncertain-times-hr-at-crossroads.pdf
Word Count: 1548
Sentence Count: 151
Average Sentence Length: 16.11

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
ceos: 30
may: 22
wili: 20
per: 20
cent: 20
growth: 19
indian: 18
managing: 17
leaders: 17
pwc: 17
talent: 16
business: 14
focus: 14
need: 13
india: 13
uncertain: 12
times: 12
leadership: 12
crossroads: 11
next: 10

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Managing  uncertain times:    crossroads Implications  the 16th Annuai CEO Survey for Indian  leaders Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  The 16th Annuai CEO Survey results have thrown some interesting opinions from Indian business leaders.  spite  the Indian economy growing  the lowest rate   decade, Indian CEOs continue   optimistic about their growth prospects. However, they have voiced deep concerns about the VUCA volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous times  are operating . Notably,   the  Indian CEOs surveyed have stated that the biggest threat  growth prospects  their enterprise  the unavailability  key skills.  what does  imply for the Indian  leader? Pathways being pursued  Indian CEOs  create value  these timesTargeting pockets  opportunity Improving operationai efficienciesConcentrating  the customerStrengthening the bridge between business and societyWhat CEOs expect from their  leader Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Aligning  with business expectations  Indian CEOs see the unavailability  key skills  the biggest threat  their growth prospects. Clearly, the people agenda has entered the boardrooms. Indian CEOs expect their  leaders  support the business  multiple fronts today. While the overarching  agenda remains unchanged, finer nuances  the job appear   changing. For example, the war for quality talent has intensified but the focus  hiring  any cost  diminishing. Existing growth-related  priorities and securing the leadership pipeline wili -exist with the pressures  driving organisationai efficiencies.  the same time, areas such  managing the environment, which  leaders post-199os would have seldom had the opportunity  necessity  focus , wili make  return.  what does the Indian  leader need  focus   the coming year?  Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Focus  the coming year Powering the growth agenda Facilitating  culturai shift Managing the environment Imperatives for Indian  leaders Securing the leadership pipelineChampioning operationai efficienciesHow can  support the organisation  growth aspirations   efficient and cost-effective manner? What capabilities   need  develop  order  manage the environment that our business operates ? How can  drive  customer-focussed and inclusive culture where diversity both cross-culturai and otherwise? How can  drive efficiencies across the organisation? How can  make the  function more efficient and demonstrate tangible benefits  deliver  the business? What innovative strategies should  use  develop the leadership pipeline and support capability building tili the last mile? Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Powering the growth agenda  think the emerging markets wili continue  see much higher rates  growth, particularly India, where  expect the three-year average between  and .  even though the growth this year could  . ,  think   going  climb back . Shikha Sharma  and CEO, Axis Bank Ltd While Sixty-three per cent  Indian CEOs are very confident  their companies revenue growth prospects over the next  months. Forty-one per cent are looking  organic growth  existing markets  the next  months. Eighty-one per cent see the availability  key skills  the biggest threat  growth prospects.  the other hand Fifty-one per cent expect  increase head count  less than . Only  consider filling talent gaps   key investment priority  the next  months.  the same time Globai CEOs consider India  the fifth most important market for future growth. Forty-four per cent  them would like  capitalise  the India opportunity  accessing locai talent bases. Powering the growth agenda The war for good quality talent wili further intensify.  the same time, there wili  further discernment and thoughts around the kind  talent  hire, and how weli   she fits into the organisationai requirements and culture. While additionai resources though not substantiai may  looked   power organisationai growth aspirations,  may not necessarily come with  commensurate increase  resourcing and manpower budgets. The focus wili   doing more with less. The need  look for more more efficient and cost-effective sources  hiring may need   explored. Automation wili need   utilised more aggressively not only  support hiring but also  free  resources  support the growth agenda. While organisations may  willing  invest  the acquisition  development  key skills, this may come  the expense  skills  talent segments felt   non-core. The key lies  strengthening the employer brand. CEOs speak Implication for  leaders Wili salary differentials between key talent and other employees increase further Are  ready  trade off internai equity  buy quality talent? Which non-traditionai sources can  tap  acquire high quality talent?  3Points  ponder CEOs speak Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Facilitating  culturai shift The most important stakeholder  the customer.  there   customer,  have  business.   Naik Executive Chairman, Larsen Toubro Ltd Approximately   CEOs  India feei that growing their customer base and enhancing their customer service are the top two priorities  the next  months. Eighty-nine per cent wish  strengthen their engagement with customers and clients. Fifty-three per cent wish  invest   culture  ethicai behaviour. Also Forty-seven per cent intend  increase their focus  workplace diversity and inclusion. Forty per cent wili focus  board levei diversity. Approximately   Indian CEOs may focus  completing  cross-border    the next  months. And Sixty-four per cent see over-regulation   key economic threat. Seventy-four per cent were extremely  somewhat concerned about corruption  the country. Driving  customer focussed culture With regulatory pressures and  need  reach out  customers   better manner,  wili  called upon  drive  more ethicai, customer- focussed culture. Taking this  the last mile may   tali task, since  organisation  culture  many ways reflects the culture  the society  live . This may require  leaders  relook   spectrum  issues including hiring sources, performance metrics and reward philosophies  customer-facing staff. Focus  diversity and inclusion Simultaneously, the focus  diversity may mean the need  introduce inclusive people policies which take into account flexibility required  different life stages and  different employee segments women, Gen-, physically challenged, etc. Driving the diversity agenda may also require  relook  recruitment and career progression strategies for better representation  selected employee segments  senior levels. Culturai sensitisation With cross-border   being high  the CEO  agenda,  needs  strengthen its capability  managing post-merger integration. Simultaneously,  needs  facilitate  culturai shift where cross-culturai sensitivity  respected and embraced. Implication for  leaders CEOs speak Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Securing the leadership pipeline The biggest threat  finding the leadership talent which can make things happen internationally.   Naik Executive Chairman, Larsen Toubro Ltd While  vast majority  Indian CEOs say they have used  variety  talent development strategies  strengthen their leadership pipeline with varying levels  success,  intend  bring changes  their talent strategies. Seventy-four per cent intend  increase investment  developing  skilled workforce. Forty four per cent feei they have  pay their top executives   more than competition  retain them. However Seventy-one per cent feei that strategic decision making  stili centralised  top executive and board levei. Approximately  feei that creating  skilled workforce should  the government  priority  weli. Thirty-four per cent are willing  explore alternatives  how top executives are rewarded  response  shareholders and public reaction. Securing the leadership pipeline Clearly for securing  leadership pipeline build  the preferred strategy over buy.  leaders need  look for more effective interventions  develop the next line  leaders who are adequately prepared  handle VUCA volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. Strengthening the leadership pipeline  today  business prerogative. With increasing focus  boards and public  top executive pay, any change  the reward philosophy may have implications  retention  top leadership.  weli- developed next line  leaders wili help businesses weather such impact. Interventions for capability and leadership development need  percolate  the last mile within the organisation and beyond.  should champion greater public-private and industry-academia partnerships  develop  skilled workforce which takes  challenges  the future. Implication for  leaders CEOs speak Where are  going wrong  our talent strategy? Where does the onus  development lie - with the organisation  with the individuai? Are  losing out  potentiai leaders because  lack  organisationai wili and ownership  talent? Wili  see  period  deceleration  salary growth? How shali  manage expectations  employees who today feei that they are entitled  salary rises every year and with every job switch?  4Points  ponder Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Championing operationai efficiencies  build  long-term business which  valuable and sustainable you have  set goals other than growth.  have always set goals for profitability along with growth, but  also aim  ensure that  have  proposition that  valued  both the customer and the employee. Shikha Sharma  and CEO, Axis Bank Ltd While Improving operationai efficiencies continues    top priority for   Indian CEOs. Fifty-three per cent intend  initiate cost saving initiatives  the next  months. However, there has been  reduction  the focus towards cost reduction  compared  2o12 .  the same time Forty-one per cent consider implementing new technology   key investment priority  the next year. Eighty-one per cent intend  bring changes  their organisation structure. Close  one-third  Indian CEOs may consider initiating outsourcing   business process  function  the next  months. Championing the cause  operationai efficiencies across the organisation  should drive  more efficient not necessarily leaner structure across the organization. This may mean better post-merger integration and alignment  acquired entities. Automation and outsourcing  processes may need   utilised more aggressively  free  resources for supporting the growth agenda. Effectiveness  the  function  addition  addressing overali organisation productivity issues, the overali effectiveness and efficiency  the  function may come into focus.  wili need  look  making people processes more efficient and customer-friendly. Tracking  tangible benefits being delivered  the  function may  high  senior leaders priority list. Evaluation   enablement   service offerings, and scope  outsource  processes  functions need   explored. Implication for  leaders Being operationally efficient  being capable  handle VUCA? Are  expecting too much from our managers? What wili  the new balance between generalists and specialists?  How wili the structure   teams change  make themselves more efficient?  3Points  ponder CEOs speak Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads  Managing the environment Any corporation  only sustainable  long  ali stakeholders are happy. The community around you   major stakeholder which can disrupt your operation    not happy.   Naik Executive Chairman, Larsen Toubro Ltd While Eighty-six per cent  Indian CEOs feei that employees including trade unions have  significant impact  their business strategy and  would like  increase their engagement with them. Close  two-third see media, locai communities and sociai media users having  somewhat  significant influence  the company  strategy.  the same time Seventy-five per cent feei that major sociai unrest  the country can have  potentiai negative impact  the business. CEOs speak Managing the environment Potentiai unionisation threats and sociai unrest driven  locai communities, media, etc. may bring proactive employee relations into focus. Simultaneously employer branding  sociai media platforms and locai communities may gain prominence. Both  these may require  professionals  relearn new skills    deliver value  the business. Implication for  leaders CEOs speak What are the  capabilities  the future? Sociai media, technology savvy  proactive employee relations how proficient are   these today?   have  development roadmap for the future? Wili  leaders need  demonstrate greater laterai leadership  the future?  4Points  ponder Conclusion The role    set  become complex.  wili have  meet the often conflicting expectations  various stakeholders. Its success wili depend  its ability  find and implement innovative solutions  the talent puzzle while  the same time managing costs, productivity and efficiency.  must also strike the right balance between its role  employee advocate and that  business partner. Are you ready for the challenge? Managing  uncertain times:   crossroads   conducted , 33o interviews with CEOs   countries between  September and  December, 2o12.  region, 449 interviews were conducted  Asia Pacific, 312  western Europe, 227  North America, 165  Latin America,   centrai and eastern Europe,   Africa and   Middle East.  India,  CEOs were covered. The interviews were spread across  range  industries.  better appreciate CEOs perspectives for 2o13,  also conducted -depth interviews with  CEOs including two CEOs from India from five continents over the fourth quarter  2o12. Their interviews are quoted  this report and more extensive extracts can  found  our website  www. pwc. com ceosurvey, you can explore responses  sector and location. About the 16th Annuai PwC Globai CEO Survey , 33o CEOs   countries CEOs  India -depth interviews with CEOs -depth interviews with Indian CEOs ContactsAbout People and Change Advisory About PwC Padmaja Alaganandan Executive Director  o8o 4o794oo1 Tathagata Basu Principai Consultant   2oo3 8359 tathagata. basu . pwc. comPwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc With  pan-India network,  assist clients  improving the performance  ali aspects  their human resource function such  performance management system, organisationai design, job evaluation and banding, rewards, competencies, vision and values, culture, employee engagement, change, talent management and development and function diagnostics.  have worked extensively with clients across different sectors, industries and borders.  you wili like  discuss any  the issues raised  Managing  Uncertain Times:   Crossroads, please speak  your usuai PwC contact  any  the contacts listed below: pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  5o7- May 2o13 The 16th annuai CEO survey. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India