Title: pwc_shale-oil-report
Date Published: 2013-02-07 14:15:29+00:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_shale-oil-report.pdf
Word Count: 2996
Sentence Count: 215
Average Sentence Length: 21.08

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
oii: 206
shale: 90
globai: 48
production: 46
price: 42
pwc: 39
energy: 32
prices: 30
eia: 28
lower: 23
could: 21
reai: 21
case: 21
february: 19
potentiai: 19
per: 19
around: 18
scenarios: 17
see: 17
modei: 17

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Shale oii: the next energy revolution The long term impact  shale oii  the globai energy sector and the economy February 2o13www. pwc. .  Shale oii February 2o13Contents Executive summary  Shale  the   The story  far Beyond the United States  Globai shale oii scenarios  The bigger picture  Globai macroeconomic impacts  lower oii pricesWinners and losers  country  Opportunites and challenges  For governments and companies 2Shale oii February 2o13Executive summary Shale oii light tight oii  rapidly emerging   significant and relatively low cost new unconventionai resource  the . There  potentiai for shale oii production  spread globally over the next couple  decades.   does,  would revolutionise globai energy markets, providing greater long term energy security  lower cost for many countries. Our analysis suggests that globai shale oii production has the potentiai  reach    million barrels  oii per day  2o35; this amounts    the world  totai oii supply.  estimate that this increase could reduce oii prices  2o35  around  - - 1oo barrei  reai terms relative  the current baseline EIA projection  133 barrei  2o35, which assumes low levels  shale oii production.  turn,  estimate this could increase the levei  globai GDP  2o35  around .  -.  which equates  around . - .  trillion  today  globai GDP values. However, the benefits  such oii price reductions wili vary significantly  country. Large net oii importers such  India and Japan might see their GDP boosted  around  -  2o35, while the , China, the Eurozone and the  might gain   -  GDP. Conversely, major oii exporters such  Russia and the Middle East could see  significant worsening  their trade balances  around  -  GDP  the long run  they faii  develop their own shale oii resources.  Shale oii February 2o13 The potentiai emergence  shale oii presents major strategic opportunities and challenges for the oii and gas industry and for governments worldwide.  could also influence the dynamics  geopolitics   increases energy independence for many countries and reduces the influence  OPEC. There are significant strategic implications along the value chain. Oii producers, for example, wili have carefully  assess their current portfolios and planned projects against lower oii price scenarios. Nationai and internationai oii producers wili also need  review their business models and skills  light  the very different demands  producing shale oii onshore rather than developing complex frontier projects  which most operations and new investment  currently focused. Lower than expected oii prices could also create long-term benefits for  wide range  businesses with products that use oii  oii-related products  inputs . . petrochemicals and plastics, airlines, road hauliers, automotive manufacturers and heavy industry more generally. The potentiai environmentai consequences   increase  shale oii production are complex and appropriate regulation wili  needed  meet locai and nationai environmentai concerns. Shale oii could have adverse environmentai effects  making alternative lower carbon transport fuels less attractive, but might also displace production from higher cost and more environmentally sensitive areas such  the Arctic and Canadian tar sands. 4Shale oii February 2o13Shale  the  The story  far Shale oii production has been accelerating  , growing from 111, ooo barrels per day  2oo4  553, ooo barrels per day  2o11 equivalent   growth rate  around  per year.   result,  oii imports are forecast this year  fali  their lowest levels for over  years. Estimates  the  Energy Information Administration EIA suggest that shale oii production  the  wili rise more slowly  the future  around .  million barrels per day  2o35  equivalent    projected  production  that date. However, these projections seem conservative relative  other market analysts who forecast  shale oii production    - million barrels per day  that date. EIA estimates  the scale  totai shale oii resources  the  have been revised upwards from  billion barrels  2oo7   billion barrels  2o1o, providing  significant contribution  increased  energy independence  shown  Chart . 3Chart . EIA  technically recoverable shale oii assessments  basin made between 2oo5 and 2o1o Anadarko Permian Western Gulf Rocky Mountain San Joaquin Williston o51o152o253o35 Source: EIA Annuai Energy Outlook 2o12 Shale oii February 2o13 Shale oii could make the largest single contribution  totai  oii production growth  2o2o, with the proportion  production from conventionai sources remaining relatively stable.  the long term,  estimate that shale oii could displace around -  waterborne crude oii imports  the . This would create additionai effective supply  other locations such  China. However, should China start  exploit its own shale oii resources  discussed further below this would further decrease its import dependency and increase effective supply  oii importing countries. Rapid production growth  shale oii  having dramatic locai effects  pricing  areas where shale oii  produced but access  export infrastructure  limited. The  domestic oii price has already decoupled from globai indices and imports are forecast  decline  shown Chart  below. Put simply, increased shale oii production could lead  oii prices that are significantly lower than projected  current forecasts. . EIA Annuai Energy Outlook 2o12 . See recent projections from Citi Energy 2o2o, IEA World Energy Outlook 2o12, Credit Suisse  Oii Production Outlook September 2o12, IHS Cera, and  Statisticai Review 2o12. . EIA Annuai Energy Outlook 2o12Chart . WTI and Brent Oii Price Spread 2oo4-  1oo 2oo 3oo 4oo 5oo 6oo - -        2oo4 2oo5 2oo6 2oo7 2oo8 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 mbblspd WTI Brent Spread Left scale Shale Oii Production Right scale Source: EIA AEO 2oo9, 2o1o, 2o11, 2o12, Baker Hughes 6Shale oii February 2o13Beyond the United States Outside the , the development  shale oii  stili   early stage. However, there are indications that point  large amounts  technically recoverable resources distributed globally. Globai shale oii resources are estimated  between 33o billion and , 465 billion barrels4. Investment  already underway  characterise, quantify and develop shale oii resources outside the , for example,  Argentina, Russia and China Since the beginning  2o12, there have been  number  announcements, from Argentina  New Zealand,  discoveries  shale oii resources  weli  government initiatives  encourage the exploration and production  shale oii see Map . .  review  uncertainties  estimates  globai oii resources, McGlade, . . , UCL Energy Institute . Internationai Gas Report, Dow Jones, SeeNews, Diamond Gas Report, Platts, Naturai Gas Intelligence, EFE, APS Review, Upstream, Oii and Gas news, Oii Daily, Financiai TimesSeptember 2o12 Two firms achieve positive results from test wells  Northern Alaska October 2o12 Exxon acquires rights  explore two blocks  Columbia thought  contain shale oilOctober 2o12 Operators apply for licences  export shale oii from  October 2o12 Mexico plans  invest  242m project  assess non-conventionai energy potentiai September 2o12 YPF signs agreement with Chevron  explore and develop shale oii  Vaca Muerta, Argentina Shale oii February 2o13Source: PwC researchOctober 2o12 Russia plans zero extraction tax for  greater range  shale oii reserves January 2o13 Australian energy company announces discovery  233  bbls  shale oii resourcesJuly 2o12 Statoii enters race  develop Australian shale oii playsAprii 2o12 China  CNPC engages  talks with internationai firms  jointly explore shale oii reserves October 2o12 JAPEX recovers smali amount  crude oii  shale oii testing September 2o12 New Zealand government encourages shale oii explorationMap . Shale oii investment  globai 8Shale oii February 2o13The potentiai impact  rising shale oii production  globai oii prices  have developed scenarios that consider the potentiai impact  future growth  shale oii production  oii prices.  have then assessed how oii price changes  this magnitude could impact the wider economy   2o35  both globai and nationai levels using  macroeconomic modei. These long-term projections are subject  many uncertainties and are conditioned   number  key assumptions  summarised  Box . The specific figures quoted for different scenarios should therefore  interpreted  being indicative  broad orders  magnitude rather than being precise numericai forecasts. The remainder  this paper summarises the key results  this research and outlines the potentiai implications for companies and governments. Box : Scenario assumptions and considerations The scenarios presented  this report rest   number  key assumptions: The successfui development  shale oii resources  dependent  the presence  globally distributed, large scale, good quality resources, with overali technicai and economic recoverability that  broadly  line with the produced shale oii resource  the . Significant exploration and appraisai wili need   undertaken  future years  prove resource quantity and quality. The second key consideration  the timing  large scale development  shale oii resources. Development  shale gas outside the  has arguably been disappointing  date and the same issues including regulatory obstacles, infrastructure, logistics and skills challenges may also influence the pace  which shale oii opportunities are pursued outside the .  assume that shale oii production outside the   phased  severai stages, starting with smali scale production from 2o15, building   one million barrels per day  2o18 and continuing  grow thereafter. The third key requirement for shale oii   exploited effectively   supportive regulatory framework. This also needs, however,  take account  locai environmentai concerns and   consistent with nationai government objectives  decarbonisation and energy security. Different countries are likely  strike  different balance here and this  reflected, for example,  our assumption that shale oii production develops more slowly  the  than  the  and some other territories. Globai shale oii scenarios Shale oii February 2o13Recent forecasts from the EIA and the Internationai Energy Agency IEA suggest  marked rise  both globai oii production and reai oii prices over the period  2o35, due  particular  rising demand from China, India and other fast-growing emerging economies . The IEA forecasts   increase  globai oii production  2o35,  compared    increase forecast  the EIA  which  not that large  difference given the uncertainties involved  any such long-term projections. The EIA and IEA  average globai oii price predictions are even more closely aligned, with the IEA predicting  sharp short-term increase that gradually flattens off  the longer term  127 per barrei  2o35 and the EIA predicting  steadier price increase  reach 133 per barrei  2o35 both estimates are expressed  reai terms adjusted for generai  price inflation, which  also the case for ali other oii price projections quoted  this report.  deriving these oii price projections, both agencies assume relatively modest growth  shale oii   proportion  totai globai production. Their projections  this respect are arguably conservative  they are based only  resources about which there  already  high degree  certainty. Past experience  shale oii and shale gas suggests that these resource estimates are likely   revised upwards significantly over time  activity  new plays  the  and globally. Extrapolating from the available data and drawing parallels with  shale gas experience has enabled   generate  number  scenarios which see shale oii production ramping  both  the  and around the globe.  shown  Chart , this analysis suggests that globai shale oii production has the potentiai  rise     million barrels  oii per day  2o35  our main scenario, amounting    totai oii supply  that date using EIA projections for production other than shale oii. . These globai energy and oii demand projections are also broadly consistent with those derived from our own World  2o5o long-term economic growth modei,  described further  this recent PwC publication: http: www. pwc. com   world-2o5o the-brics-and-beyond-prospects-challenges-and-opportunities. jhtmi . Sources: EIA Internationai Energy Outlook IEO 2o11, EIA American Energy Outlook AEO 2o12 and IEA World Energy Outlook WEO 2o12. Chart . Globai liquids production  resource 2o4o 2o35 2o3o 2o25 2o2o 2o15 2o1o Conventionai oii inci NGLs CTLs GTLs Extra heavy oii Shale oii Source: EIA IEO 2o11, PwC Analysis main scenario 1oShale oii February 2o13We have developed two core oii price scenarios8 based  this shale oii production outlook: The first scenario the PwC reference case allows for OPEC  respond  increases  shale oii production and consequent lower oii prices  limiting its own production  maintain  average price  around 1oo dollars per barrei  reai terms. This supply scenario results  OPEC losing some market share, although OPEC member states continue  increase totai production  absolute terms  meet rising demand  shown  Chart . The second scenario the PwC low case does not include  OPEC response,  the increased overali oii supply results   greater impact  oii prices, which fali  2o35  around  per barrei  reai terms. Chart . Forecast  OPEC production  PwC reference case . EIA reference case EIA reference case Left Scale PwC reference case Left scale           1oo OPEC PwC reference case Right scale OPEC EIA Right scale 2o35 2o3o 2o25 2o2o 2o15 2o12OPEC oii production mmb  OPEC  globai production Source: EIA IEO 2o11, OPEC Website, OPEC Annuai Report 2oo9, 2oo4, PwC Analysis .  the fuli analysis  developed  much larger range  alternative oii price scenarios, but for clarity  exposition  focus  two representative scenarios  this report. Shale oii February 2o13In both these scenarios, our modei suggests  globai reai oii price that  significantly lower than the EIA reference case projections  around 133 per barrei  2o35 -  around   our reference case, and  around   our low case see Chart . This corresponds   reai oii price fali  around - per barrei  2o35 compared  the EIA baseline projection.  our scenarios, the oii price falls  proportionately much more than the rise  oii supply. This reflects the weli-documented empiricai finding that oii demand  relatively insensitive  price changes, based  estimates  long-term price elasticities  our modei drawn from past academic studies Chart . Forecast oii price incorporating impact  shale oii production . EIA reference case EIA reference case oii price PwC low case  OPEC response PwC reference case OPEC maintain 1oo bbi 2o35 2o3o 2o25 2o2o 2o15 2o1o 2oo5 2o1o bbi Source: EIA AEO 2o12, PwC analysis . See, for example, the survey  oii price elasticity  demand estimates  . . Hamilton, Understanding Crude Oii Prices, Department  Economics, University  California, San Diego, May 2oo8 Table , . . 12Shale oii February 2o13The bigger picture Globai macroeconomic impacts  lower oii prices Lower globai oii prices  the magnitude indicated  our analysis suggest  major impact  the future evolution  globai economy, given the key role that oii prices stili play. These effects are not  great now   the 197os when oii price hikes had severe negative impacts  major oii-importing economies, helping  push the  and many other countries into prolonged periods  stagflation, but are nevertheless very significant.  have used the Nationai Institute Globai Econometric Modei NiGEM  help  understand the likely scale  these impacts .  have explored the consequences   lower oii price across the globai economy and for selected major nationai economies covered  the modei  particular the , Japan, Germany, the  and the BRICs Brazii, Russia, India and China. Oii prices play three key roles within the NiGEM modei: . Energy combines with labour and capitai  produce economic output  measured  GDP. . Import and export prices are modelled   weighted average  commodity and non- commodity prices.  decrease  the price  oii wili improve the terms  trade for  net oii importer, and conversely see them deteriorate for  net oii exporter. . Oii prices are directly and indirectly linked  consumer prices. Lower oii prices wili generally boost consumer spending power, especially  net oii importing economies. . NiGEM   globai econometric modei developed  the Nationai Institute  Economic and Sociai Research NIESR, one  the   longest established and most respected economic research institutes. Centrai banks, finance ministries and leading companies around the world use the NiGEM modei.  enables them  understand the likely impacts  major economic shocks and how  range  macro-economic variables may react and adjust over time. However,  should  noted that the analysis  this report and the interpretation  the results  the sole responsibility  PwC, which has  licence  use NiGEM, rather than  NIESR. Shale oii February 2o13We have used NiGEM  modei the impact  the two different scenarios considered above namely  decrease  either     reai globai oii prices, phased  over two decades the maximum time horizon  the modei . The modei indicates that the levei  globai GDP could  between .  and .  higher  the end  the projection period see Chart .  today  GDP values, this  equivalent   increase  the size  the globai economy  around . -.  trillion per annum. This could imply  rise  2o35  average globai GDP per person  between 23o and 37o per annum  today  prices relative  the EIA baseline case with minimai shale oii production. Chart . Globai economic benefits from  lower oii price  world GDP  reai oii price fali  reai oii price fall2o32 2o28 2o24 2o2o 2o16 2o12 Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM . Strictly speaking the NiGEM modei projections therefore end  2o32, but  the text  generally refer  these effects  relating  2o35 for consistency with our globai oii price modelling and that  the EIA  their baseline projection. Looking  far ahead, the difference between potentiai effects  2o32 and 2o35 ,  any event, not likely    ali materiai compared  the uncertainties surrounding any such projections. 14Shale oii February 2o13Winners and losers  country Clear winners emerge when considering the impact   nationai levei. India and Japan, for example, could under these scenarios see  increase  GDP  between  and   the end  the projection period see Chart . Other net oii importers such  the , China, Germany and the  could also see GDP gains  the order  -  GDP  the long term due  lower globai oii prices relative   baseline with minimai shale oii. Chart . Change  nationai GDP  oii price scenarios relative  baseline - -       reai oii price fali  reai oii price fallWorld Russia Brazii China  Eurozone  Germany Japan IndiaDifference with base case  finai year difference Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM Shale oii February 2o13At the other end  the spectrum, the modei shows that some major net oii producers could see their current account balances deteriorate significantly   result  lower oii prices see Chart  for Russia and the Middle East. However, the NiGEM modei takes  account  which particular countries wili  producers  shale oii. And Russia could limit its projected losses were   exploit its estimated resources, the largest  the world.  lower oii price acts   boost  consumers reai disposable income similar   indirect tax cut, with  consequent positive effect  reai household spending levels.  Japan, for example, the modei results suggest  fali    the reai oii price could increase private consumption per head  the end  the projection period  the equivalent  more than , ooo per year when compared  the EIA baseline with minimai shale oii production. Gains  the  and the Eurozone would also  significant, although net gains   consumers would  lower  part because there are also losses  existing North Sea oii and gas revenues  globai energy prices fali see Chart . Chart . Change  current account balance   GDP  alternative oii price scenarios - - - - - -    Russia Middle EastGermany India  Brazii China Eurozone  JapanDifference with base case  finai year difference  reai oii price fali  reai oii price fali Source: PwC analysis using NiGEM Chart . Change  reai household consumption  alternative oii scenarios         Eurozone  JapanDifference with base case  finai year difference  reai oii price fali  reai oii price fali Source: PwC Analysis using NiGEM 16Shale oii February 2o13Opportunities and challenges For governments and companies The possibility  increases  shale oii production and the potentiai macroeconomic impact raises challenging questions for ali stakeholders  the energy industry: Governments  current net oii importing countries with potentiai shale oii resource wili need  understand the likely economic payback from creating policies  encourage exploitation  shale oii both  its own and relative  other unconventionai resources. With  lower oii price, the financiai investment case for renewables becomes relatively less attractive; governments wili have important choices  make   how  realise the benefits from shale oii production   way that balances potentially conflicting objectives  energy affordability and decarbonisation. For example,  oii prices are lower than expected due  shale oii, governments could keep fossii fuei taxes higher than would otherwise  acceptable and recycle the proceeds from this into, for example, funding for   for low carbon technologies. Shale oii could displace other new oii supply sources that could  argued  have higher associated environmentai costs, such  the Arctic and Canadian tar sands. The potentiai environmentai impact  shale oii  complex and there wili  challenging regulatory, fiscai and other policy decisions for governments  make  this area over the coming years and decades. Governments  OPEC nations and other major net oii exporters need  assess the likely impact  shale oii  globai oii prices and their own revenues, budgets and economies. They need  consider how best  respond  terms  potentially limiting growth  oii production  counteract the potentiai price effects  increased production outside OPEC. Another priority may  the mitigation  the long-term impacts  governments revenues more generally  oii prices below current projections. Where feasible, they also need  consider pursuing their own shale oii exploration and production options. Oii companies have  assess their current portfolios and planned projects against lower oii price scenarios. They need  understand the likely impacts  lower oii prices  the investment case for high cost projects.  addition, they need  review their business models and skills  the light  shale oii  industrialised production process which makes very different demands  operators than today  remote and challenging locations.  Shale oii February 2o13 Businesses that support nationai and internationai oii companies with services and equipment need  consider the implications for their strategy and operating modei  their clients shift focus from offshore  onshore operations with very different implications for the services and capabilities required. Already many IOCs are staring  invest  shale oii exploration and production outside the , including sites  China, Argentina, Australia and Russia. Major downstream operations, such  refineries and petrochemicai plants, which rely  oii and oii products, need  consider new sources  supply and the potentiai for lower feedstock prices, both  which may influence the performance  existing assets and investment decisions  new ones. More generally, companies across the economy which rely  oii and related products . . plastics, airlines, road haulage, automotive manufacturers and heavy industry more generally could see significant favourable shifts  their cost structures over the next couple  decades. These wili need   factored into longer term business planning and investment appraisai decisions. Conclusions The potentiai availability and accessibility  significant reserves  shale oii around the globe - and the potentiai effect  increased shale oii production  limiting growth  globai oii prices - has implications that stretch far beyond the oii industry.   globai levei, shale oii has the potentiai  reshape the globai economy, increasing energy security, independence and affordability  the long term. However, these benefits need   squared with broader environmentai objectives  both the locai and globai levei. Consequent changes  policy and regulatory regimes wili have important knock- effects  oii producers and consumers. The effects   lower oii price resonate along the entire energy value chain, and investment choices based  long-term predictions   steady increase  reai oii prices may need   reassessed. The potentiai magnitude  the impact  shale oii makes   profound force for change  energy markets and the wider globai economy.   therefore criticai for companies and policy-makers  consider the strategic implications  these changes now.  would  happy  arrange individuai meetings  discuss the results  our research  more detaii and  help you consider what  might mean for your organisation. 18Shale oii February 2o13Contacts Adam Lyons Director PwC Tei:    78o4 3175 Mob:   785o 9o7625 Emaii: Adam Lyons . pwc. com Adam has  years experience  the oii and gas sector strategy, having worked with globai companies  the Upstream and Midstream and Downstream parts  the value chain,  weli  oilfield services. Adam leads engagements focusing  strategy development and implementation, competitor and market assessment, technology strategy, mergers and acquisitions, due diligence and corporate integration and separation. Adam has worked  projects  Western Europe, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, Africa and North America. This has provided wide industry exposure  the various perspectives and challenges  major internationai oii and gas companies, independents, infrastructure developers and oii and gas services companies,  weli  investors. John Hawksworth Chief  economist PwC Tei:    7213 165o Emaii: John. . hawksworth . pwc. com John Hawksworth specialises  globai macroeconomics and public policy issues.   Chief Economist  PwC   firm, editor  our Economic Outlook reports and lead author  our World  2o5o  long-term prospects for the world economy.   also the author  many other reports and articles  macroeconomic and public policy topics and  regular media commentator  these issues.  has carried out economic consultancy assignments for  wide range  public and private sector organisations both  the  and overseas over the past  years. Michaei Hurley Partner PwC Tei:    78o 44465 Mob:   771o 319445 Emaii: michaei. hurley . pwc. com Michaei Hurley   Partner  PwC with over  years experience within the energy sector.   the globai leader  the Energy Utilities and Infrastructure strategy team and has directed  large number  assignments globally for major energy companies and governments. Michaei   regular speaker  industry forums globally, including recently  CERA-week,  the World Petroleum Congress  Doha and for the World Energy Councii. Prior  joining PwC Michaei was   government advisor, responsible for regulatory and commerciai advice covering upstream oii and gas activities  the North Sea. William Zimmern Senior manager PwC Tei:    7212 275o Mob:   773o 146 351 Emaii: william. zimmern . pwc. com William   Senior Manager  PwC  Economics Consulting practice  London.  specialises  macroeconomic modelling and economic strategy for clients  the public and private sectors.  has worked with  range  multinationai and public sector clients  economics, investment, valuation and strategic issues.  works cross sector and his clients have been some  the biggest companies  European retaii and investment banking, globai transportation and globai mining.  the public sector  has worked for Beijing Government and Saudi Arabia Investment Authority among others. Before PwC, William worked   senior  government economist. PwC  helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    member  the PwC network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com . This publication has been prepared for generai guidance  matters  interest only, and does not constitute professionai advice. You should not act upon the information contained  this publication without obtaining specific professionai advice.  representation  warranty express  implied  given   the accuracy  completeness  the information contained  this publication, and,  the extent permitted  law, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, its members, employees and agents  not accept  assume any liability, responsibility  duty  care for any consequences  you  anyone else acting,  refraining  act,  reliance  the information contained  this publication  for any decision based  . 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  the  member firm, and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. Designed  The Design Group 21398   www. pwc. . 