Title: India Pharma Inc.
Date Published: 2013-10-22 11:00:53-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_changing-landscape-of-the-indian-pharma-industry.pdf
Word Count: 4321
Sentence Count: 383
Average Sentence Length: 18.03

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 80
pharma: 69
clinicai: 67
companies: 63
industry: 51
trials: 51
indian: 37
growth: 36
also: 32
pharmaceuticai: 31
wili: 30
government: 29
regulatory: 28
market: 24
pwc: 23
drugs: 23
new: 22
life: 21
ipm: 21
top: 21

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

India Pharma Inc. Changing landscape  the Indian pharma industry www. pwc.  Content Executive summary  Indian pharmaceuticai market highlights 2o13  Regulatory challenges  Clinicai research  India p1o Building  robust internai compliance programme p12 The technology curve: Revamping the pharma industry p14 Foreword Welcome  the CII Pharma Summit 2o13. The Indian pharma market  currently valued  72o69 crore INR1. The market has experienced  slowdown this year with its growth going down  .  from .   2o122. This slowdown can  attributed  the new drug pricing policy and the regulatory interventions over the last year. The Indian pharmaceuticai industry  witnessing regulatory challenges like delays  clinicai triai approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceuticai pricing policy,  uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing.  order  bounce back   healthy growth rate  future, companies wili have  rethink the way they  their businesses today. The government wili have  play  great role  establishing  strong regulatory set-  weli   speedy redressai for related issues. Quality and regulatory concerns could also lead  greater  FDA scrutiny  future. Companies wili have  step  their quality and manufacturing compliances  line with the globai guidelines. Companies wili also have  think  their governance and compliance framework  robust and  updated with the constantly changing regulatory requirements. They need  focus  using the new technologies  connect better with their key stakeholders like patients, healthcare providers, regulators, governments, payers and the society  large.  this report,  look  the changing landscape  the industry, the regulatory hurdles and the emerging technologies that need   considered  order  achieve  sustainable and compliant long-term growth.  hope this report presents  overview  industry issues and throws light  the industry potentiai  that the concerned stakeholders can see  better. Sujay ShettyExecutive Director, India Pharmaceuticai Life Sciences Industry LeaderPwCDr Rajiv ModiChairman - CII Gujarat State Councii andChairman - CII Pharma Summit 2o13 and Chairman and Managing DirectorCadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  PwCExecutive summary The Indian pharmaceuticai market IPM  valued  72o69 crore INR  2o133  against 65654 crore INR  2o124.  has experienced  slowdown with its growth going down  .  from .   2o125. There has been  slowdown  the growth  the top Indian  weli  multinationai companies MNCs. However, the slowdown  more prominent  the MNCs than  the Indian companies.  2o12, the top five MNCs had grown  the rate   which dropped down    2o13 The contribution  chronic therapies  the IPM has gone  from   2o1o    2o13 . Chronic therapies cardio, gastro, CNS and anti-diabetic have outperformed the market for the past four years and are growing   rate   , faster than the acute therapies anti-infectives, respiratory, pain and gynaec which grew  .  . This essentially translated   overali slowdown  2o13. The number  new products launched has gone down from approximately 19oo  2o1o  approximately 17oo  2o121o.  ali the new launches   Aprii 2o13, the maximum were anti-infectives 468, pain- analgesics 435 and gastro 389 therapies . The implementation  the Nationai Pharmaceuticai Pricing Policy 2o12  the government  India has resulted  margins erosion from  and    and  for retailers and stockists respectively . This decrease  the stockist margins led   significant uncertainty among many stockists regarding the feasibility  staying  business due  lower profitability post the margin reduction.  addition  the growth challenges, the pharmaceuticai industry  currently grappling with  number  issues like delays  clinicai triai approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceuticai pricing policy,  uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing, ali  which need  speedy resolution. The industry  also facing stricter regulations  manufacturing and quality practices  the domestic  weli  the internationai markets. India  perceived   attractive destination for clinicai trials. Concerns have been expressed about the approvai  drugs without clinicai trials, unethicai practices  clinicai trials and payment  compensation  patients  kin  the event  adverse events  clinicai trials. The government  India has responded  these concerns  bringing  additionai oversight mechanisms for clinicai trials and notifying new rules for clinicai trials. Approvals for clinicai trials  India however have slowed down considerably.  addition, concerns have also been expressed  various stakeholders involved  the clinicai research  India  some aspects  these regulations. The Indian government has agreed  consider some  these concerns. The government has also stated that  wili consult the states and ali other stakeholders  create  legai and regulatory framework for clinicai trials  India. Clinicai trials are  inherent part  the drug development process and cannot  dispensed with. The continuing search for new therapies and cost-effective alternatives  existing therapies wili  realised  practice only after comprehensive clinicai trials. The clinicai research industry  India needs  work closely with the government  create  regulatory mechanism that allows scientifically sound and ethically correct trials   conducted  that the benefits  clinicai trials can  brought  patients  India. India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry 5Another criticai concern for the pharmaceuticai and life sciences companies   create  compliance programme that encapsulates the locai  weli  the globai regulations guiding operations and practices  the pharmaceuticai and life sciences industry. Focussing  the Medicai Councii  India  code MCI, the draft Uniform Code for Pharmaceuticai Marketing Practices UCPMP and the Organisation  Pharmaceuticai Producers  India OPPI code,  applicable can help companies fix the loopholes  their current compliance programmes and make  more robust. Further, emerging technologies called SMAC: sociai networking, mobile computing, analytics and cloud computing, are likely  play  cruciai role  addressing these challenges, improving operationai efficiencies and amplifying the performance  the pharmaceuticals companies. Though each  these technologies has  unique impact, they also complement each other  order  drive business transformation. These technologies jointly foster innovation through new ways  product development, customer service and interaction and partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success. India has had  efficient pharmaceuticai industry which has been making affordable drugs not just for the Indian markets but has also been exporting them  the world but off late, been facing rising FDA scrutiny for quality.  FDA has increased its scrutiny  the quality coming from India located manufacturing plants. Indian companies wili have  raise their compliance   FDA regulations  they drive their major share  exports from the  market. Addressing the challenges   holistic way wili strengthen the sector which constitutes  major part  the Indian economy. Pharma companies wili have  think through suitable strategies  mitigate the risk emanating from the above discussed challenges and  sustain growth  the next decade. SMAC technologies Sociai networkingCloud computingMobile computingAnalytics  PwCIndian pharmaceuticai market highlights 2o13 Market value and growth scenario The IPM  valued  72o69 crore INR  2o1313  against 65654 crore INR  2o1214 with  incrementai value  6416 crore INR, which  down from the 9363 crore INR for 2o11- 2o1215. The IPM has experienced  slowdown this year with its growth  going down  .  from .   2o1216. From 2o1o  2o12, the IPM had  CAGR  approximately  . The IPM growth rate has declined after November 2o12 from  average     . This slowdown can  attributed  the following: The Nationai Pharmaceuticai Pricing Policy NPPP being announced towards the end  2o12 Higher growths for the corresponding quarters and months  the previous year The NPPP implementation and the subsequent price corrections leading   low uptake among the stockists    2o13 Key therapy areas The top  therapy areas  the IPM contribute  approximately   the IPM sales . Chronic therapies cardio, gastro, CNS and anti-diabetic have been outperforming the market for the past four years and have grown   rate   , faster than acute therapies anti- infectives, respiratory, pain and gynaec which grew  .  . This  what effectively resulted   overali slowdown  2o13. The contribution  chronic therapies  the IPM has gone  from   2o1o    2o1322. Therapy2o1o contribution 2o13 contribution 2o13 growth Acute   .  Chronic   .  Company performance The top  companies contributed    totai IPM sales  from   2o1o23. These companies had  collective growth   lower than the IPM . Companies that ranked from    contributed    IPM sales and had  cumulative growth   higher than the IPM . The remaining companies contributed    the IPM sales with  growth rate   . Growth trends  Indian companies and MNCs There has been  slowdown  the growth  the top Indian  weli  multinationai companies. However, the slowdown  more prominent  the MNCs than  the Indian companies.  2o12, the top five MNCs had  growth rate   which dropped down    2o13 . Similarly,  2o12, the top five Indian companies had  growth rate   that dropped down    2o1328. Growth 2o12Growth 2o13Inc value 2o12Inc value 2o13MNC Top five   1649 88o Top    1952 1o97Indian Top five   1521 1361 Top    2678 2374 Brand performance The top 1oo brands  the IPM cumulatively contributed  approximately    the totai market value with  growth rate  approximately  . This value has marginally gone  from   2o1o31.  the top 1oo brands,  brands were more than 1oo crore INR  value32. Indian companies and the MNCs had  equai share  the top 1oo with  products each33.   the top 1oo products were acute therapy products while  were chronic therapy products .  terms  therapy, there were  anti- infective products,  gastro,  anti-diabetic,  respiratory and nine cardiac therapies . New introductions Contribution  the new introductions NIs  the IPM has gone down from .   2o1o  .   2o13 . The number  new products launched has gone down from approximately 19oo  2o1o  approximately 17oo  2o12 .  ali the new launches   MAT Apr 2o13, the maximum were  anti-infectives 468, pain- analgesics 435 and gastro 389 therapies . The average value per  was .  crore INR for the overali market and was the highest for vaccines .  crore INR . IPM Contribution 2o13 Top , growth rate-Next , growth rate-Others, growth rate-       India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry 7Town-class penetration Increased access  healthcare, improved infrastructure and greater penetration  pharma companies into extra urban regions has led   enhanced contribution and  higher growth from lower town classes  the IPM. Urban regions metros and Class  contribute  approximately    the IPM sales while the extra-urban regions Class    towns and rurai contribute  approximately  . Growth  driven mainly  the Class  towns  and rurai areas . .  Town-class contribution  IPM and growth Town-class  IPM Growth Metros   Class  towns   Class  -  towns   Rurai   Other trends  2o12 2o13 Implementation  NPPP  the government This resulted  the margins  ali products that came under the purview  the NPPP drop from  and    and  for the retailers and the stockists respectively . This decrease  stockist margins led   significant uncertainty among many stockists regarding the feasibility  staying  business due  the lower profitability post the margin reduction. Increase  adoption  MCI guidelines More companies were seen adopting the MCI guidelines for the promotion  products  doctors and changes being made  the sales and marketing strategies across the industry. Focus  improving sales force productivity Companies have focused  increasing the productivity  their field forces with  aim  optimisation, -deploying  high potentiai territories, implementing robust processes and using technology  monitor the performances  regular basis, thereby trying  bring  enhanced efficiency  the overali sales force. Alliances and partnerships Another trend seen  the market was the partnerships between the multinationai and Indian companies with  aim  increasing the reach  terms  the number  customers and geographicai coverage for patented molecules. These were seen  the form  -marketing, -promotion, licensing and joint ventures. The Indian pharma industry  experiencing  slow growth currently due  the new pricing policy and other regulatory challenges. However, making  slight change  the way they are doing business today can negate the impact  the long run. Henceforth, both the Indian and foreign companies operating  India wili have  device suitable strategies  order    the top  globai markets  2o2o. Some  these strategies can  portfolio optimisation expansion into newer markets improving sales force productivity including newer technology building  robust internai compliance programme  PwCRegulatory challenges The Pharma regulatory environment across the world  getting more stringent.  order  compete  the globai market, the Indian pharma market needs  strong regulatory set-. But, the sector  currently grappling with  number  issues like delays  clinicai triai approvals, uncertainties over the FDI policy, the new pharmaceuticai pricing policy,  uniform code for sales and marketing practices and compulsory licensing ali  which need immediate attention. Clinicai trials Safety and effectiveness  the medicines has   established before regulatory approvai  granted for new drugs. Clinicai trials are the gold standard processes which determine the safety and effectiveness  these drugs. Clinicai trials are also needed for the Indian pharmaceuticai industry  develop cost effective therapies for diseases like tuberculosis, diarrheai diseases, malaria, leishmaniasis, and meningitis which affect India and the other developing countries and  capitalise  opportunities provided  bio-similars. India also has aspirations  becoming  knowledge hub for Pharma.    generai and clinicai trials  particular are  important aspect  this aspiration. India has been considered   attractive destination for conducting such clinicai trials. This  mainly due  India  genetic diversity; increasing and varied disease prevalence rates; availability  medicai, pharmacy and science graduates, clinicai infrastructure and comparative cost advantage. However, the regulatory delays  the clinicai trials are adversely affecting this possibility. The delays and regulatory uncertainty have severely derailed the innovation curve  weli  the growth  the clinicai triai industry. Ineffective regulatory oversight, need for safeguards for informed consent for vulnerable populations and compensation guidelines for patients for triai related deaths have emerged  major concerns.  terms  the clinicai trials, where India could have been  leader, the country  losing out  opportunities because  the mentioned limitations. The FDI policy Hundred percent FDI through the automatic route was possible  the Pharma sector  India. Given the high current account deficit, India requires FDI. The FDI policy, however, gives confusing signals. 1oo FDI  greenfield investments  allowed  the automatic route but after November 2o11, the brownfield investments require the approvai  the Foreign Investment Promotion Board FIPB which often comes with conditions . The time consumed  this process also acts  deterrent. FIPB conditions include the need  maintain production levels for the NLEM  the highest levei for three years preceding the FDI, the need  maintain   expenses  the highest levei for three years preceding FDI, the need for information  the transfer  technology  the administrative ministries and FIPB etc. The intention behind such restrictions may  good but  discourages investment.  need  FDI policy which addresses these concerns while ensuring the affordability  weli  the availability  drugs  India Nationai Pharmaceuticai Pricing Policy NPPP Pharmaceuticai price controls are seen ali over the world. Through NPPP 2o12, the government has enhanced the scope  the Drugs Price Controi Order DPCO  include ali the drugs  the NLEM . Combination drugs  which one  the drugs   part  the NLEM were also brought under the ambit  DPCO. The government also changed the formula  arrive  the ceiling price from  cost based method   market based method. The Pharma companies are feeling the effects  the price controls associated with NPPP which wili have  negative impact  their topline  short term. However, with weli thought out strategies,  large part  this impact can  negated  the medium  long term. While companies have accepted the reality  price controls, one issue which has adversely affected the industry  the timeline for the implementation  DPCO. The industry felt that the government did not provide sufficient time for implementing the new packaging and labeling with the revised prices. There was also lack  clarity about the location where such packaging and labelling activities could  performed. Some companies had    court  get  extension and the ones who couldn     time are stili suffering. This confusion could have been easily avoided through consultation and  giving adequate time for the implementation  the revised prices. Uniform code  sales and marketing   attempt  streamline the marketing efforts, the Department  Pharma DoP has issued guidelines   uniform code  sales and marketing practices which are applicable  the pharmaceuticai companies. This   laudable step aimed  preventing corruption. The DoP guidelines however, are different from the MCI guidelines  the sales and marketing practices. Tax authorities use the Centrai Board  Direct Taxes CBDT circular based  MCI guidelines  decide  permissible sales and marketing expenses. Because  differing standards between the DoP and MCI guidelines, there   increased need for clarity both from the point  view  the industry  weli  the tax authorities. India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry  Compulsory licensing  countries like India, there should   balance between the need for affordability  drugs and intellectuai property  protection. The intention  the government  ensure the availability  patented medicines   reasonable price  noble but there are other ways  achieving the same goai. The indiscriminate use  compulsory licensing wili undermine both the Indian  weli  foreign pharmaceuticai companies. The industry  also facing stricter regulations  manufacturing and quality practices  the domestic  weli  internationai markets. Manufacturing quality India  the biggest supplier  medicines  the  and according  the industry sources, pharmaceuticai exports from India  the  rose nearly  last year  .  billion USD. With increase  exports, Indian companies are drawing greater FDA scrutiny for quality and manufacturing compliances. For India  continue exporting  the foreign markets companies wili have  step  their quality and manufacturing compliance programmes which are  line with the  FDA regulations. Increasing confidence  the drugs manufactured  India  important. The regulators need  set the standards  par with the globai ones through appropriate legislation. They also have  ensure that these standards are effectively enforced and complied with. India has  efficient pharmaceuticai industry which has been making affordable drugs not just for the Indian market but has also been exporting them  the world. Addressing the above challenges   holistic manner wili strengthen the sector which constitutes  major part  the Indian economy. Pharma companies wili have  devise suitable strategies  mitigate the risk emanating from the above discussed challenges for  sustainable and compliant growth over the next decade.  PwCClinicai research  India Randomised clinicai trials are the gold standard process  which the safety and efficacy  experimentai drugs  evaluated. Data submitted  the pharma companies  analysed and evaluated  regulators before drugs are approved for use.  addition, clinicai trials are also required for post market surveillance  drugs. India  perceived   ideai destination for clinicai trials.  large scientific workforce weli versed  the English language,  diverse pooi  patients  need  treatment and cost arbitrage were seen  drivers for clinicai research  India.  2oo5, the government  India amended the Drugs and Cosmetics Act allowing clinicai trials   held simultaneously with other countries without  phase lag. The number  clinicai trials  India rose   high  529  2o1o The growth  the number  clinicai trials however was not accompanied   similar growth  the regulatory oversight  trials. The main concerns regarding clinicai trials  India are  follows: Approvai for drugs without trials The government  India  Parliamentary Standing Committee  Health  its 59th report submitted  May 2o12 has observed that  drugs have been introduced  India without clinicai trials . This committee has called for strengthening the regulatory mechanism for clinicai trials. Unethicai practices There have been reports about the use  vulnerable population groups  clinicai trials. Lapses have been reported  the informed consent process. Concern has also been voiced about under-reporting  adverse events and delays  reporting adverse events  clinicai trials. Compensation for adverse events The government  India has reported that there have been 2868 deaths during clinicai trials  the period 2oo5-2o12 .  has also reported that there were  deaths which were related  clinicai trials out  which compensation had been paid   cases . Health activists and civii society groups have emphasised the need for payment   adequate compensation  patient  kin because  injuries  death related  clinicai triai. The need for timely payment  agreed compensation has also been highlighted  these groups. Responding  these concerns, the government has introduced  slew  measures: Registration  ali clinicai trials  India has been made mandatory. Twelve Nationai Drug Advisory Committees comprising eminent experts  different medicai specialities were set   2o12,  oversee approvals for clinicai trials.  January 2o13, after observations  the Supreme Court, Government  India introduced two additionai committees: the Technicai Committee under the leadership  the Director Generai  Health Services and the Apex Committee under the Secretary  Health and Family Welfare  supervise approvals for clinicai trials  India. The government has made registration  independent ethics committees mandatory. The Drugs and Cosmetics Act has been amended  define adverse events related  clinicai trials. Timelines have been defined for the reporting  adverse events. The government also introduced regulations for the computing and payment  compensation  patients  their kin for adverse events.  has also instructed the supervision  clinicai triai sites  regionai offices  the Centrai Drugs Standards Controi Organisation CDSCO. The clinicai research industry  India and the academic research community have welcomed the government  initiatives  regulate clinicai trials  India. They have however expressed concerns with some aspects  the regulations. India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry 11Delays  approvals The additionai committees created  the government  January 2o13 add  the delays  approvals. This delay  forcing companies  rethink their plans for conducting clinicai trials  India. Some have indicated that they may  forced  move clinicai trials out  India. Research institutes such  Nationai Institutes  Health NIH USA have also suspended  ongoing clinicai trials  India. Compensation  the event  adverse events Section 122 DAB  the Drugs and Cosmetics Act  amended  the government  India  January 2o13 states that  the case   injury occurring   clinicai triai participant,   she wili  given free medicai management for  long  required . Medicai management  patients should  required only  the event   clinicai triai related injury. Promising medicai management  ali clinicai triai participants may also  construed   inducement  patients and thus needs   reviewed. The definition   clinicai triai related event includes failure  investigationai product  provide intended therapeutic effect . The very purpose  conducting clinicai trials   assess whether the investigationai product wili produce the intended benefit and failure  produce the intended benefit cannot  construed   clinicai triai related event. The definition   clinicai triai related event also includes use   placebo   placebo controlled triai. Here again, mere inclusion   patient  the placebo arm cannot   basis for payment  compensation since such patients  receive the current standard  care The government  India  its affidavit before the Supreme Court has said that  wili look into some  these concerns .  has also appointed  committee under the chairmanship   Ranjit Roy Chaudhury  formulate guidelines for conducting clinicai trials  India. This committee has submitted its report  August 2o13 and this report  now under the consideration  the government. The government has also stated that  wili consult the states and ali other stakeholders  create  legai and regulatory framework for clinicai trials  India. Clinicai trials are  inherent part  the drug development process and cannot  dispensed with. The continuing search for new therapies and cost-effective alternatives  existing therapies wili  realised  practice only after comprehensive clinicai trials. The clinicai research industry  India needs  work closely with the government  create  regulatory mechanism that allows scientifically sound and ethically correct trials   conducted  that the benefits  clinicai trials can  brought  patients  India.  PwCBuilding  robust internai compliance programme Scientific and technology innovations,  rising demand for quality and lifesaving medicines, trade liberalisation and socio-demographic changes paint  success story for the pharmaceuticai and life sciences sector worldwide. These factors open more avenues for innovation and profitability for the industry . However, the future  the industry wili  made  marred not only  the obvious success factors but also   criticai consideration  compliance and governance matters. Companies operating  India and outside have   aware  and comply with  nexus  locai and globai regulations guiding the operations and practices  the pharma and life sciences industry.  World Bank research  2oo7 indicated that lack  transparency  decision-making coupled with lack  accountability  such decisions created severai opportunities for corrupt practices and led  governance breakdown . Marketing and promotionai activities between the pharmaceuticai industry and healthcare professionals are under the strict scanner  globai regulators.  such, compliance and governance has taken centrestage  the boardroom  pharma and life sciences companies. Regulatory focus and challenges  India  various parts  the world, the relationship between the pharma industry and the medicai profession has been  controversiai one.  the current economic environment, where both the top and bottom lines  pharma and life sciences companies are under immense pressure, companies more often than not resort  aggressive sales strategies  woo medicai professionals through gifts and hospitality. High-profile corruption crackdown cases and proactive internai investigations conducted  companies have brought  the fore certain significant ethicai dilemmas for pharma and life sciences companies. Activities including but not limited  lavish gifts, sponsorship  holidays under the pretext  medicai conferences, free samples, etc. have raised concerns and resulted  the introduction  various laws and guidelines that aim  govern the ethicai conduct  medicai professionals  weli  pharma and life sciences companies  India. The main regulations relevant for medicai professionals and pharma companies  India are  follows: Prevention  Corruption Act, 1988   centrai statute that applies  ali  India and intends  curb bribery and corruption  the context  civii servants  the centrai and state governments. The Indian Medicai Councii Professionai Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics Regulations 2oo2, MCI Code issued under the Medicai Councii  India Act, 1956 including subsequent amendments prescribes standards for the medicai profession  India. Amendment notification dated  December 2oo9, specifically prohibits medicai practitioners and their professionai associations from accepting any gift, travei facility, hospitality, cash  monetary grant from pharma and life sciences companies.  addition, the Centrai Board  Direct Taxes CDBT issued  circular  2o12 stating that  would disallow expenses incurred  pharma and life sciences sector businesses  providing freebies  medicai professionals and treat the value  freebies enjoyed  the medicai professionals and their professionai associations  their taxable income . The Draft Uniform Code for Pharmaceuticai Marketing Practices Draft UCPMP  currently pending finalisation  the Department  Pharmaceuticals under the Ministry  Chemicals and Fertilisers. This voluntary code relates  the promotion  pharma products and interactions between healthcare professionals and the pharma industry. The Department  Pharmaceuticals has indicated that while they would like pharma companies  adopt this code voluntarily, India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry  they wili consider enacting  law  voluntary adherence  ineffective.  line with the MCI Code, the current Draft UCPMP also prohibits pharma companies from extending freebies  healthcare professionals  their families. OPPI Code  Pharmaceuticai Practices, 2o12 was introduced  the Organisation  Pharmaceuticai Producers  India and  based  the code  the Internationai Federation  Pharmaceuticai Manufacturers and Associations.  was introduced for the member companies  the OPPI  govern ethicai conduct and promotionai activities. The OPPI Code, among other things, prohibits freebies  healthcare professionals.  addition,  provides guidance   appropriate venues for meetings and events . . conducive  the scientific  educationai objectives and the purpose  such events and meetings;  engaging healthcare professionals  advisory capacities for example consultants, advisors, etc. ; and iii prohibition  promotionai aids and brand reminders. Robust internai compliance programme  this environment, following are some criticai questions  consider:  your governance and compliance framework robust and updated with changing regulatory requirements? Are ali dealings with healthcare professionals  weli  government and regulatory agencies conducted  the most transparent and ethicai manner?  you really know who your third-party and business agents are? What would happen  you associate yourself with  third party whose ethicai standards are not consistent with your company values?  the race  optimise profits, have you compromised any aspect  compliance  controls?  you have adequate controls over your contract manufacturing facilities? Are you aware  the business practices adopted  your CFA, stockist  distributor? Are they  line with your compliance standards?  you believe your company has adequate financiai controls  mitigate the risk  potentially inappropriate conduct  employees?  criticai consideration for pharma and life sciences companies   create  compliance programme that encapsulates locai and globai regulations guiding the operations and practices  the industry. Focussing  the MCI Code, Draft UCPMP and OPPI Code  the extent applicable can help companies close loopholes  their current compliance programme and make  more robust.  PwCThe technology curve: Revamping the pharma industry Globally, businesses are facing radicai changes within current economic and market structures. Major scientific, technologicai and socioeconomic changes promise  revive the industry  fortunes  another decade. However, capitalising  these trends wili require cruciai decisions. Despite  high demand for pharma products, there exists pressure  deliver effective treatment  lower costs. Healthcare reform and regulatory requirements are changing the realities  the marketplace. This  affecting the entire value chain from product development  healthcare delivery and payer reimbursement. The industry  current business modei based  the development and marketing  blockbuster drugs, can  longer meet stakeholder expectations.  order  remain competitive, pharma companies wili have  innovate around their products  weli  services   cost-effective manner. Specifically,  see the convergence  four key technologies  drive innovation; sociai networking, mobile computing, analytics and cloud computing SMAC. Though each  these technologies has its unique impact, they also complement each other  order  drive business transformation. Sociai media defines who  work with and enables collaboration and communication with employees  weli  customers. Mobile devices create  platform where  work providing anytime, anywhere access  applications stored within the cloud and other data sources. Analytics identifies what  work  and helps  make actionable sense  data. Cloud enables how   the work and contains information and applications. These technologies, jointly foster innovation through new ways  product development, customer service and interaction, partnerships, thereby creating value and stimulating success.  look  the value chain  pharma companies provides  glimpse  the applicability  SMAC.  typicai pharma value chain consists  the following: Pharma value chain Support activities: human resource management, financiai management, procurement, , etc. India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry 15We believe that emerging technologies are likely  play  cruciai role  addressing these challenges, improving operationai efficiencies and amplifying the performance  pharma and life sciences companies. Organisations that continually adopt technology, master  and drive business integration are likely  have  sustainable advantage over their peers  the market.  PwC  16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey, pharma and life sciences CEOs have indicated improving operationai effectiveness, focussing    and innovation and implementing new technology  top investment priorities over the next  months . The drug related   stage  highly complex, criticai and resource-intensive. Investments have  guarantee  return due  uncertainty   drug being approved  the end  the process. Drug research and clinicai analysis during pre-clinicai  clinicai trials generate huge amount  data. For example, sequencing   genome can generate petabytes  data, which are too unstructured for analysis using traditionai relationai data analysis tools and techniques. Storing this data  the traditionai -premise modei can result  high initiai costs,  utilisation and procurement challenges. Leading organisations are realising that cloud computing  much more than  mere sophisticated  solution.    fact,  optimai business solution. Pharma companies can leverage cloud computing and big data analytics  save cost and reduce time  generate competitive advantage  the market. High memory compute capacity  available -demand  prices  low   USD per hour. Cloud based elastic compute capacity and low-cost storage solutions combined with the processing power  big data analytics. Technologies such  Hadoop can result  significant cost advantages and improved operationai efficiencies during the   phase. The whole process  likely  change radically  the future.  alternative measure  success  indicated   company focussing  its core activities. Companies are realising this and hence there   growing trend  increased reliance  third parties  joint working   shift towards  networked pharma modei  drive productivity and efficiencies. This poses  opportunity for pharma and life sciences companies  adopt the software---service SaaS based modei for functions areas such  manufacturing, sales and marketing, finance, human resource, etc. SaaS based solutions for enterprise resource planning ERP, customer relationship management CRM, laboratory information management, sales force automation, human resource management HRM, payroli and financiai management, warehouse management, etc have the potentiai  eliminate upfront investments . . capitai expenditures, capex  fixed components such   infrastructure and convert the entire  cost into  variable cost  operationai expenditure opex. Consumers today are more willing  provide inputs and feedback for products and services. This presents  opportunity  cost-effectively crowdsource ideas and encourages evolution  solutions. According  the PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey,   pharma and life sciences CEOs said that customers and clients influence their business strategy and   them are strengthening efforts  engage customers and clients. For some, that means finding new ways  reach out  patients, such  engaging them directly  better understand how their medicines work  reai-life settings. Holistic sociai media strategies can accelerate innovation  tapping into the thought process   much larger stakeholder group. Additionally, effective utilisation  sociai media tools for internai collaboration can result  effective communication and knowledge flow across the organisation. Proliferation  mobile devices mobile phones, tablets and myriad other devices that have built- smart features  sense and respond like sensors, biometric devices, etc provides enterprises with  new platform  engage and interact with their customers  weli  employees. These devices are not mere tools for accessing applications, but are drivers  innovation  they can create  ecosystem that can transform the customer and employee experience. Pharma companies can leverage these devices  order  differentiate and create  competitive advantage   rapidly shifting market. Analytics combined with  comprehensive sociai media and enterprise mobility strategy  likely  emerge   criticai competitive requirement for pharma companies  order  innovate, improve customer service, enhance employee engagement and reduce costs. While   pertinent that SMAC wili drive operationai efficiency, reduced costs and foster innovation, even the best  technologies cannot deliver success without  structured and weli-defined strategy. Pharma companies wili have  make the following key considerations before investing  SMAC: Conduct  detailed assessment  its business and technicai landscape  identify opportunities for SMAC adoption. Formulate  business case for SMAC adoption  clearly articulating business and commerciai value and defining success criteria. Identify statutory and regulatory compliance requirements and required controls  address existing issues. Design the optimum solution,  evaluate multiple solutions  services available  the market  determine solutions  services best suited  specific requirements. Conduct proof--concept and validate against defined success criteria before implementation.  PwC Conclusion The economic environment  India  tougher now than ever before. While pharma companies focus their attention  measures  combat the growth slowdown, they wili need  work with the government and other stakeholders  discuss and resolve regulatory challenges. Resolving the impasse with clinicai trials wili help companies continue with   which  centrai  their growth strategies. With numerous companies operating  multiple jurisdictions, the pharma and life sciences industry  one  the most heavily regulated  the world. Not surprisingly, the burden  successfully managing complex rules and regulations   major issue facing the -suite  pharma and life sciences companies worldwide. Instituting compliance programmes catering  regulatory requirements  not enough  today  volatile market where reputation   stake. Companies need  take  36o-degree approach for their compliance programmes encapsulating not only compliance with regulatory requirements but also their internai code  conduct and ethics code.  compliant pharma  life sciences company with  strong tone  the top wili gain better competitive advantage  this economic environment  the long run.  and emerging technologies such  SMAC present opportunities for pharma companies  engage with externai stakeholders such  patients, healthcare providers and governments  develop products and services designed  make the goai  health for ali  reality. India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry  References Acknowledgement - AIOCD AWACS Market Intelligence Report 2o13 MAT June 2o13 Dataset PwC analysis  Foreign Investment Promotion Board www. fipbindia. com  Nationai Pharmaceuticai Pricing Authority www. nppain-dia. nic.   Ministry  Health and Family Welfare website http: mohfw. nic.  index1. php? linkid 338 levei  lid 164o  ang  downloaded   October 2o13  Department-related parliamentary standing commit-tee  health and family welfare - Fifty-Ninth Report  The Functioning  The Centrai Drugs Standard Controi Organisation CDSCO  Ministry  Health and Family Welfare website http: mohfw. nic.  index1. php? linkid 338 levei  lid 164o lang  downloaded   October 2o13  Ministry  Health and Family Welfare website http: mohfw. nic.  index1. php? linkid 338 levei  lid 164o lang  downloaded   October 2o13  Gazette Notification GSR 53E dated . . 2o13 down-loaded from http: www. cdsco. nic.  htmi Notification. htmi   October 2o13  Gazette Notification GSR 53E dated . . 2o13 down-loaded from http: www. cdsco. nic.  htmi Notification. htmi   October 2o13  Supreme Court Order dated  September 2o13    .  2o12 with   .  2o12  PwC, 2o12, From vision  decision, Pharma 2o2o, http: www. pwc. com pharma  World Bank, 2oo7, Campos  , Bhargava . Tackling  sociai pandemic. : Campos  , Pradhan  eds, The . Many Faces  Corruption: Tracking Vulnerabilities  the Sector Levei. Washington   Circular .  2o12 dated --2o12  PwC 16th Annuai Globai CEO Survey www. pwc. com  thank the following PwC team members for their valuable contributions  this report: Krishnakumar Sankarnarayanan Nisha Vishwakarma Ritesh KhotRitesh PalSujay Shetty Sagar Pawar About CII The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, Government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo members, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo enterprises from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai industry bodies. CII charts change  working closely with Government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialized services and strategic globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  key issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civii society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  ali. With  offices, including  Centres  Excellence,  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Contacts Confederation  Indian Industry Western Region1o5 Kakad Chambers, 132  Annie Besant RoadWorli, Mumbai - 4ooo18Maharashtra, IndiaPhone:   2493179oFax:   24939463 2494 5831Emaii: ciiwr cii. inWebsite: www. cii.  About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcContacts Sujay Shetty Executive Director, India Pharmaceuticai Life Sciences Industry LeaderPwCEmaii: sujay. shetty . pwc. comPhone:   6669 13o5 Nisha Vishwakarma Manager, India Pharmaceuticals Life SciencesPwCEmaii: nisha. vishwakarma . pwc. comPhone:   6669 11oo www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - October 2o13 India Pharma Inc. : Changing landscape  Indian pharma industry. indd Designed : Brand and Communications, India