Title: Impact on domestic businesses: Key budget changes and analysis
Date Published: 2025-02-03 11:59:52+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_budget-2025-impact-domestic-companies.pdf
Word Count: 1673
Sentence Count: 115
Average Sentence Length: 22.95

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
tax: 27
budget: 25
domestic: 18
pwc: 18
inr: 17
act: 14
proposed: 13
income: 12
impact: 11
companies: 11
time: 11
months: 11
india: 10
transactions: 10
goods: 10
assessment: 10
ooo: 10
compliance: 9
section: 9
government: 8

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

February 2o25Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies2 Preface The Union Budget 2o25 2o26, presented  the Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, highlights the Government  India  commitment  fostering economic growth and enhancing the globai competitiveness  Indian enterprises. With  focus  inclusive development and ease-- doing business, the budget introduces  series  transformative reforms and initiatives aimed  bolstering key sectors such  agriculture and Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises MSMEs and emphasizes innovation. These measures are designed  stimulate private sector investments, uplift household sentiments and enhance the spending power  India  burgeoning middle class. For domestic companies, the budget brings significant enhancements  credit availability, particularly for MSMEs, with the credit guarantee cover being doubled  facilitate  additionai credit  INR .  lakh crore over the next five years. The introduction  customised credit cards for micro enterprises and  new Fund  Funds for start-ups further highlights the government  support for entrepreneuriai ventures. Additionally, the budget proposes substantiai tax reforms, including  new income-tax bili aimed  simplifying the tax structure and reducing litigation, thereby fostering  more business-friendly environment. The budget also emphasises investment  people and innovation, with initiatives such  the establishment  Nationai Centres  Excellence for skilling, expansion  medicai education and the launch   Deep Tech Fund  Funds. These efforts are complemented  sector-specific measures, including support for clean tech manufacturing and the promotion  exports through the Export Promotion Mission. Together, these initiatives aim  reduce compliance and create  robust ecosystem for Indian companies  thrive, innovate and contribute  the vision   Viksit Bharat. PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies3Towards simplified tax laws  the Union Budget 2o24 , the Indian Government initiated  comprehensive review exercise  make the Income-tax Act, 1961 the Act concise and easy  understand. Public inputs and suggestions were invited  four categories, namely, simplification  language, litigation reduction, compliance reduction and removai  redundant  obsolete provisions.  line with the announcement, the Finance Minister has stated that the new Direct Tax Bili    tabled  the coming days. However,  slew  amendments are also introduced under the current Act under the Finance Bili, 2o25. These amendments aim  achieve rationalisation, reduction  disputes and clarify tax laws.  snapshot  the key amendments impacting domestic companies  India  provided  the ensuing paragraphs. The income-tax rates applicable for  domestic company remain unchanged for previous year 2o25 ,  tabulated below. Stability  income-tax rates Category Tax rate Companies opting section 115BAB  the Act  plus  surcharge plus  cess Companies opting section 115BAA  the Act  plus  surcharge plus  cess Companies not opting for sections 115BAA  115BAB  the Act and whose totai turnover  previous year 2o23  does not exceed INR 4oocrores25 plus surcharge plus  cess  surcharge, where totai income  between INR 1crore and INR 1ocrore;  surcharge, where totai income exceeds INR 1ocrore. Other companies  plus surcharge plus  cess  surcharge, where totai income  between INR 1crore and INR 1ocrores;  surcharge, where totai income exceeds INR 1ocrores. PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies4Safe Harbour Rules are currently applicable  identified specific categories  eligible transactions such  Software Development Services, Information Technology-Enabled Services ITES, Knowledge Process Outsourcing KPO Services, Contract Research and Development Services, Manufacture and export  Core Auto Components, Specified Financiai transactions. Ali  these classes have defined limits and defined arm  length prices which are accepted  the tax department thereby providing tax certainty. During the budget speech, the Hon ble Fin Min mentioned that the scope  the existing Safe Harbour scheme wili  expanded. The details are expected  follow. Towards certainty Expanding the scope  the Safe Harbour Scheme The government continues the effort  promote domestic manufacturing and value addition  increasing the Basic Customs Duty BCD  the import  goods and reducing  exempting BCD  components, parts and capitai goods. This budget focuses  the following key products: . Interactive Flat Panei Display IFPD BCD  increased from   ; and Parts and Components  IFPD BCD  reduced  either   nii. . Certain capitai goods used for manufacture  electric vehicle battery and mobile phone battery are exempt from immediate effect. This wili reduce the capex cost and promote locai manufacturing  India Promote domestic manufacturing and value additionTime limit prescribed for finalising provisionai assessment under Customs: Currently, Customs law does not specify  time limit for finalising provisionai assessments. The Union Budget 2o25  proposes  introduce  two-year timeline, with  one-year extension for sufficient reasons and few exceptions. This proposai ensure that assessment wili  finalised within the prescribed timeline. Pending Speciai Valuation Branch investigations are likely   completed faster due  this amendment. Conditions and compliances for import  goods  concessionai rate  Customs duty relaxed: Currently, goods imported  concessionai rate  Customs duty for use  the manufacture  finai product are required   used within six months  the date  import. Given the bulk procurements, companies had  pay the Customs duty along with interest for use beyond the prescribed timeline. The Union Budget 2o25  increases the timeline from six months  one year and relaxes the monthly filing requirement   quarterly filing. This   beneficiai amendment for the industry and saves cost and time. Whether the said amendment would  applicable  goods already imported    assessed. Voluntary revision  import and export documents: The industry has been struggling  amend bills  entry and shipping bills after the clearance  the goods  case   mistake, error  other legai requirements. The request for amendments  rectify the mistake was earlier made  the Customs authorities, and the entire process was time consuming and prone  interpretation and litigation. This budget  proposals insert  provision for the voluntary revision  entry post clearance  the goods. The timeline and other procedurai aspects are expected  follow the enactment  this provision. This  also  significant trade facilitation measure. Simplification and facilitation  trade The landmark decision  the Supreme Court  the case  Safari Retreat allowed GST input tax credit  goods and services received   taxable person for the construction   immovable property, which qualify  plant  machinery. The Union Budget 2o24  proposes  retrospective amendment with effect from  July 2o17  section     the CGST Act 2o17,  replacing the term plant  machinery  plant and machinery. This  expected  have  significant impact  the credit availed  taxpayers  immovable property  specific scenarios treating   plant  machinery. The applicability  the Supreme Court ruling after this amendment    evaluated. Key amendment based  the GST Councii recommendations PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies5 PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies6Industry-specific measures India has actively been pushing towards fostering  robust start- ecosystem since 2o16   part  the Start- India initiative and  now home  the world  third largest start- ecosystem. Eligible start-ups enjoy  three-year tax holiday  their profits out  ten years, provided the start- company  incorporated within the specified time limit. While the said tax provision was about  hit its sunset, the government has been extending the benefit   yearly basis during recent budgets. The Union Budget 2o25 further extends the benefit   tax holiday  ali eligible start-ups which are incorporated before  Aprii 2o3o.  India continues its journey towards becoming  globai leader  innovation, this extension  expected  foster  vibrant entrepreneuriai ecosystem. Incentivising start-ups  separate chapter XII- was brought  vide the Finance Act, 2oo4  promote the Indian shipping industry,  introducing  tonnage tax scheme for Indian shipping companies satisfying specific conditions. This scheme provided for  presumptive taxation for sea-going ships.  promote inland water transportation  the country and  attract investments  the shipping sector, the budget proposes  extend the benefits  the tonnage tax scheme  inland vessels registered under the Inland Vessels Act, 2o21 with effect from Assessment Year  2o26 . Boost for shipping industry Carry forward  losses  case  merger  succession Amendments are proposed  provisions related  the carry forward and set off  accumulated losses  cases  amalgamation  business reorganisation, wherein the successor entity would  eligible  carry forward the accumulated losses, for the balance unexpired period  eight AYs alone. The proposed amendment aims  prevent the practice  evergreening  losses, where losses  the predecessor entity are carried forward for  period  more than eight years through amalgamation , thereby ensuring  more disciplined and time-bound approach  loss carry forward. These changes are proposed   applicable for any amalgamation  business reorganisation effected  brought into force   after  Aprii 2o25.   measures PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies7Rationalising compliances The basic thresholds above which TDS  applicable has remained unchanged for severai years. With effect from  Aprii 2o25, the following changes are proposed  the threshold for TDS applicability: TDS and TCS Easing the rigours Provisions  the Act Nature  incomeCurrent threshold Proposed threshold Interest  securities section 193 Nii INR , ooo Income from mutuai funds section 194K INR , ooo INR , ooo Commission  brokerage section 194H INR , ooo INR , ooo Rent section 194- INR , , ooo INR , ooo per month  part   month Fees for technicai services, professionai services, royalty etc. section 194J INR , ooo INR , ooo Annuai limits, unless specified otherwise TCS  sale  goods  proposed   abolished, bringing about significant relief from compliance burden  transactions. Moreover, sections 2o6AB and 2o6CCA  the Act were introduced  penalise taxpayers who  not file tax returns,  mandating the payers  income  deduct higher rates  taxes  source. Pursuant  the said provision, the payers  income were required  verify the payee  tax return filing status  the instance  complying with TDS. Moreover, the Centrai Board  Direct Taxes introduced  tooi  the reporting portai for such exercise. However, considering the compliance burden involved, the said provisions are proposed   abolished with effect from  Aprii 2o25. The above measure aims  reduce the time and resources embroiled  compliance and increase ease--doing business  India. PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies8To encourage voluntary tax compliance, the Indian Government, vide the Finance Act, 2o22, allowed filing  Updated return within  period   months from the end  the relevant ,  payment  additionai income tax. Vide Budget 2o25, the Finance Minister proposes  extend the time limit  file the updated return from the existing  months   months from the end  the relevant , with  additionai income tax payable,  filed between    months and  payable,  filed between    months.   also proposed  allow the taxpayers  file the updated return, even  -assessment proceedings are initiated after  months, but dropped later. This  expected  further facilitate voluntary compliance  taxpayers and also reduce potentiai disputes with tax authorities. The conditions relating  filing  updated return cannot lead  increased losses, claim  refund etc. continue  apply. Facilitating voluntary compliance Similar  the specified financiai transaction reporting, crypto-asset transactions are proposed   brought  within the reporting framework with effect from 1Aprii 2o26. Income-tax rules are   notified  define the reporting entity, the nature  information   maintained and due diligence procedures   carried out  the reporting entity for identification  any crypto-asset user  owner.   step towards the implementation  the Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework brought   the Organisation  Economic -operation and Development, the Government  proposai  introducing  domestic reporting framework can  seen   push for transparency  crypto-asset transactions, enabling tax authorities  monitor and address gaps  existing tax framework. The definition  Virtuai Digitai Assets  expanded  include any crypto-asset, which   digitai representation  value that relies   cryptographically secured distributed ledger   similar technology  validate and secure transactions. Bringing crypto under the net PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies9Dispute resolution measures One  the key agendas  the Indian government  the recent past has been  reduce tax litigation and provide certainty  taxpayers. Accordingly, the time limit for imposing penalty  now rationalised  mean expiry  six months from the end  the quarter  which the connected proceedings are completed  receipt  the relevant order  the tax authorities. Additionally, penalties are   levied  the Tax Officer   against Joint Commissioners under the existing law. Moreover, the existing law provides for the taxpayer  apply for immunity from penalty and prosecution within one month from the end  the month  which the relevant order was passed. The taxpayer   represent the case before the , who wili dispose  the application within  period  one month from the end  month  which application  received. The period for processing the application  increased from one month  three months with effect from  Aprii 2o25. Additionally, relief  provided from prosecution  respect  failure  deposit TCS  the taxpayer, provided the same  deposited   before the time limit prescribed for filing the TCS statement. Rationalising penalty provisions Taxpayers engaged  internationai transactions  specified domestic transactions are currently subjected  annuai transfer pricing assessments  India wherein these transactions are scrutinized for adherence with arm  length principle for each year even  the transactions are similar and there   change  facts. The Union Budget 2o24- has proposed  introduce  option  taxpayers  undergo transfer pricing assessments for  block  three years  order  ease the burden  annuai transfer pricing assessments.   proposed that the taxpayer shali  provided with the option  the transfer pricing officer during transfer pricing assessment  get the arm  length price ALP, determined  relation   internationai transaction   specified domestic transaction for any previous year, applied   similar transaction for the two consecutive previous years immediately following such previous year. The option  block assessment shali not  available for search cases. Block transfer pricing assessment scheme Search cases The concept  block assessment was - introduced vide the Finance .  Act, 2o24 for search cases. The following changes are proposed: Undisclosed income,  found during the course  the search,  proposed  include crypto- assets. Changes  block assessments Along with the assessment proceedings, - assessment, recomputation, reference  order relating  any  wili abate, upon the search being initiated. Computation  income for the purpose  section 158BB   the Act  clarified  provide appropriate treatment for income based  books  accounts. The time limit for the completion  block assessments     months from the end  the quarter  against the end  the month  which the last  the authorisations for search  requisition  executed. These changes are  take effect from  Aprii 2o26. While the form, manner and time limit  opt for block  assessment are yet   prescribed, this rationalisation measure  intended    line with globai best practices  ease the compliance and administrative burden  the taxpayers and tax authorities alike. PwC Budget 2o25 - Impact  Domestic Companies About PwC  PwC, our purpose   build trust  society and solve important problems.    network  firms  151 countries with over 36o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, advisory and tax services. Find out more and teli  what matters  you  visiting   www. pwc. com. PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. 2o25 PwC. Ali rights reserved. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo Public  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. This document does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this document has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this document represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o25 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  - February 2o25 -  