Title: pwc_indian-mutual-fund-industry-fv
Date Published: 2013-06-21 13:48:55+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_indian-mutual-fund-industry-fv.pdf
Word Count: 6968
Sentence Count: 569
Average Sentence Length: 19.14

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
fund: 127
mutuai: 113
industry: 84
funds: 82
investors: 57
financiai: 51
products: 40
ooo: 40
management: 38
investment: 37
distribution: 37
wili: 36
cities: 35
also: 35
debt: 35
india: 34
market: 33
growth: 32
schemes: 31
rurai: 29

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Indian mutuai fund industry Unearthing the growth potentiai  untapped markets www. pwc.  Indian mutuai fund industry   glance Introduction  The untapped market  India  How  increase the rurai footprint P11 Technology   game changer P13 Regulatory trends P17 Our conversations with industry stakeholders P24 Looking ahead P26 Chairman  Message   move into the 9th edition  the mutuai fund summit,  see how the mutuai fund industry has evolved over the years, growing and maturing with every development that  taking place. Given the current scenario  market volatility and uncertainty, these are challenging times for the mutuai fund industry, where the investor perceives investments  the capitai market   risky and unsafe, and hesitates  channelize his savings into mutuai fund products.  such  scenario, the role  the distributor  the financiai adviser assumes  lot  importance,    the touch point for the investor.  rests upon the advisor  the distributor  encourage the investor  purchase mutuai fund products and help achieve his financiai goals over  fixed period  time.   important that the investor understands that mutuai funds are not just investment products, but  solution  their financiai requirements.   criticai that the distributor undertakes measures and initiatives  educate the investor and increase the levei  awareness. Considering the criticai role played  the distributor,    immense importance that the distributor fraternity  adequately trained and regulated  that the mutuai fund product  sold for the right purpose and adequate time period. Clearly, technology has the potentiai  increase the depth  penetration and strengthen the distribution network  reach beyond the Tier  cities.   only  matter  time when the asset management companies wili realise the need  imbibe the various emerging technologies and leverage the sociai media platform.  the mutuai fund industry matures,  becomes increasingly challenging  identify the catalysts for growth and implement new measures  achieve profitability. For instance, the mutuai fund industry  now looking towards leveraging the pension platform  spur growth  the industry. Also, asset managers are hunting for solutions  the strategy and approach followed  other industries and sectors. This report  PwC titled Unearthing the growth potentiai  untapped markets discusses some  the pertinent challenges faced  the under-penetrated market and seeks  address these challenges  offering some possible recommendations.  hope you find this report insightfui and usefui.  welcome any comments  suggestions  this report  prepare better for next year.  Balasubramanian Chairman - CII Mutuai Fund Summit 2o13 and Chief Executive Officer Birla Sun Life Asset Management . Ltd. Foreword  gives  great pleasure  continue our journey with CII into the 9th edition  the Mutuai Fund summit.  this background paper titled Unearthing the growth potentiai  untapped markets,  have attempted  capture some key perspectives  the mutuai fund sector. This   the backdrop  the current scenario, both globally and   nationai levei, where uncertainty appears  have become the new normai, with  immediate sight   upsurge.   important that mutuai funds are positioned   long-term investment vehicle, with the potentiai  achieve financiai goals and provide investment solutions, especially  these challenging times. The underlying thoughts  this paper are centred  the ways  which the challenges presented   under-penetrated market can  addressed. The industry continues  grapple with low levels  investor awareness and financiai literacy, along with constraints  accessibility and reach. This paper provides insights into some  the best practices that the industry can look  adopt, evaluates how technology can provide  competitive edge and act   enabler for growth, and captures key regulatory developments that have taken place concerning the industry, both  India and overseas.  have included some  the insights arising from our conversations with industry stakeholders our sincere thanks for the valued inputs received - and have attempted  make some recommendations  the way forward.  hope you enjoy reading the report and welcome any suggestions you may have. Manoj Kashyap Leader, Financiai Services PwC IndiaGautam Mehra Leader, Asset Management PwC India PwCThe financiai services landscape  transforming, with  plethora  changes taking place  the regulatory front. Against this backdrop, asset management companies AMCs realise that they need  -structure their businesses  order  meet the evolving needs  their clients and provide them with complete investment solutions. Although emerging markets such  India provide  wide range  opportunities,   important  tap into these avenues  fuei the growth  the mutuai fund industry. The year gone  Amidst volatility and uncertainty  the markets, average assets under management AUM posted  growth   for the year ended March 2o13. This was considerably higher than the  growth reported  March 2o12. The industry has grown   compound annuai growth rate CAGR   from 2oo9 -2o13 see Figure . Figure  Growth  average assets under management   INR CAGR  , 173, ooo , 139, 79o , 922, 5oo , 647, 916 , 164, o17 -, ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo , ooo, ooo 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13 Source: AMFI However, the trend from 2o1o depicts that net sales for the mutuai fund industry has dipped, picking  slightly  2o13,  grow   see Figure . IntroductionFigure  Net sales  net redemptions 2oo9-2o13 Net sales Net redemptions Poly. Net redemptions o2o, ooo, ooo4o, ooo, ooo6o, ooo, ooo8o, ooo, ooo1oo, ooo, ooo12o, ooo, ooo 2oo9 2o1o 2o11 2o12 2o13 Source: AMFI; ali data   INR  totai  139 new schemes were launched for the year ended March 2o13, generating sales  236, 47o million INR. Furthermore, AUM under the equity segment has actually declined , whereas the debt segment has grown significantly   see figure , which implies that investors are stili wary  investing  the market looking for relatively safer investments  directing their investments into the debt bucket. Assets under management  the liquid and money market and gold exchange traded funds ETFs grew   and  respectively. Figure  Category-wise growth  assets under management Equity Debt Liquid Money market Gold ETF 2o12 2o13 Source: AMFI Indian mutuai fund industry 5Net sales increased for the year ended March 2o13 AUM  equity segment registered  declineAssets under management grew  , 164 billion INR  decline  the totai number  foliosHuge inflows  the debt segment, with  significant growth  AUM Net investment for the year ended March 2o13 declinedIn  scenario  declining interest rates, for March 2o13 the distribution  assets under management have understandably been heavily skewed towards debt    totai assets under management.  fali  interest rates  indicative  higher returns for long-term debt and gilt funds. Furthermore,  has been observed that  the case  investments held for over  period   months, assets under management held  retaii investors  the non-equity segment was , whereas for the short term,  was only , suggesting the fact that  the current environment, investors are preferring debt funds for  even longer time span exceeding  months. Retaii Investors One  three months Six  twelve months Over twenty four months Equity  category .  .  .  Non-equity  category .  .  .  Source: AMFI, March 2o13 Even though the industry has witnessed growth during the last year, the rise  assets under management has been coupled with erosion  the investor base, evident from the loss  .  million folios   March 2o13. The equity segment saw  decline  .  million folios, although the debt segment showed  addition  .  million folios. This again indicates that investors are inclined towards relatively safer investments, not wanting  undertake risk  these volatile and uncertain markets.  rise has also been reported  the AMFI registration number ARN registrations,   consequence  reduction  ARN fees. Since the SEBI permitted retired bank officials, schooi teachers, postai agents, etc  seli mutuai fund schemes, AMCs have been geared   derive maximum benefit from this opportunity  create  far-reaching distribution network, especially  - cities and towns.  additionai reason for AMCs  draw  this opportunity  being able  charge  higher totai expense ratio  they achieve their investment targets  these cities. Industry  glance       PwCThe Indian population  largely under-banked with  very low levei  financiai inclusion leaving room for further penetration. The extent  under-penetration  the market   sore point with the banking and financiai services industry, with  large amount  savings being channelised into gold and reai estate rather than the capitai market. The GDP growth has slowed down, sluggish    2o12-, with savings and investment rates following  downward trend.  2o1o-, the savings and investment rates were  and . , respectively, which declined  .  and , respectively,  2o11- and .  and .   2o12-. Comparing India  other countries,  realise how financiai inclusion  yet   achieved see Figure . While the  and the  have .  and .  branches per .  million adults and developing countries such  Brazii have .  branches per .  million adults, India    staggeringly low figure  .  branches per .  million adults. Figure  Financiai inclusion data  compared  other economies . 913.  . 825. 535.  . 412o.  . 264. 6173.  . o5o. o1oo. o15o. o2oo. o25o. o3oo. o35o. o4oo. o45o. o5oo.  . o2o. o4o. o6o. o8o. o1oo. o12o. o14o. o16o. o18o. o2oo.  India Brazii Austria  USNo.  Branches .  ATMs Bank Credit Source: World Bank, Financiai Access Survey; 2o1o data Note: .  branches and ATMs per .  million adults The untapped market  IndiaFor savings   streamlined into the capitai market, investors need  first and foremost  made aware  avenues and opportunities. The mutuai fund industry  yet  spread its reach beyond Tier  cities. The top five cities contribute    the pie, with the remaining  distributed among other cities see Figure . Statistics show that  March 2o13, penetration  the top five cities increased    compared    March 2o12, whereas for cities beyond the top five, penetration has decreased. One  the prime areas the industry  focusing   developing the penetration ratio and increasing its presence  other cities. Figure  Assets under management: Geographicai distribution March 2o13      Top  cities Next  cities Next  cities Next  cities Other cities Top  cities Next  cities Next  cities Next  cities Other citiesMarch 2o12      Source: AMFI Another interesting fact worth noting  how skewed the business from the industry , with the top ten fund houses contributing   the totai assets under management and the bottom ten  mere . Indian mutuai fund industry 7Challenges   under-penetrated market The under-penetrated market  India, although showcasing huge opportunities for market players  seli their products, places multiple roadblocks  tap into these opportunities   their optimum potentiai. Low levei  awareness and financiai literacy Culturai and attitudinai changes Reach and scalability Adapting the distribution channei Some basic challenges arise due  very low levels  awareness and financiai literacy. The situation  these cases  such that even  the ability  invest exists, these savings are prevented from being directed into mutuai fund products. This  because  the slow capitai market growth, lack  awareness  mutuai funds being  low-cost investment vehicle and the returns they can generate.  this case, there  also the interplay  culturai and behaviourai change which prevents savings from being streamlined into investment products, diverted from gold  property. Indians stili feei that gold and property   less risky alternative  compared  investment  the capitai markets. Also, investors are not aware  low risk products that they can invest .  culture change  required  this case,  people are   convinced  invest  the capitai markets.  order  reach the bottom  the pyramid, challenges remain  terms  the unavailability  proper documentation, unavailability  PAN card, bank account, etc. However,   likely that the roli out  Aadhaar initiative wili  some extent resolve these problems. PwCAgainst the above backdrop, distributing mutuai fund products continues    challenge. Post the regulatory changes  August 2oo9, which restricted entry load  mutuai funds, the industry went through  period  sluggish growth, resulting   lack  incentive  seli mutuai fund products. Subsequently,  number  independent financiai advisors IFAs and other distributors stopped pushing mutuai fund products  investors and dropped out  the market.  order  shift the sales incentive plans from the traditionai front-ended schemes  traii orientation, SEBI recently announced significant changes  the commission structures. Commissions are now payable through  traii mechanism where the advisor receives commission  the assets retained   scheme  fund   -going basis. This takes away the temptation  cause investment churn for commissions. Also,  order  deepen the penetration beyond the top  metros  cities, the regulation now permits fund- houses  charge  additionai fee    .  more for the expense  the investment flows from smali cities and towns beyond the defined top . However, this  associated with mutuai funds drawing   new inflows from these smaller towns. For example,   fund house gets less investment, such  say   new investment, then the ratio wili    .  only. This  likely  push distributors  penetrate markets further, increasing the sales  mutuai fund products and thereby bringing  new investors. Going beyond the metrosThe IFA connection The independent financiai advisor IFA   cruciai link  the distribution chain  mutuai funds. This segment has potentiai  widening the distribution network and expanding the client base   sustainable basis.  encourage first-time distributors, AMFI has placed  waiver  around , ooo INR  registration fees for first-time distributors, for  period  five months, valid untii  June, 2o13. IFAs exercise  strong influence over customers and thereby have the key  building  strong relationship with their clientele. Right from scheme selection  asset allocation and asset diversification,   the IFAs who can mould the customers thoughts and direct their investments into appropriate channels. IFAs draw   financiai plan based  the financiai goals and requirements  their clients before suggesting any investments. They are also responsible for monitoring these investments  regular intervals  ensure that there  limited diversion from the ultimate financiai goai  the investor, and  advise the best possible path  conditions  market volatility and uncertainty. The recipe for success  the advisory modei  basic. The starting point   understand what your customer intends  achieve  part  his  her financiai plan and the kind  returns   she  looking  over  period  time. Also, there   need  focus  asset allocation. IFAs also need  gauge the extent  risk which the investor can take and suggest funds  schemes suited  his  her appetite. Hence,    prime importance that IFAs are empowered with professionai training and education. This can  done through regular knowledge summits, seminars, etc across cities. The AMC community  also supportive  the IFA fraternity, extending support for business development, training requirements and investor education. Indian mutuai fund industry  According   survey conducted  Franklin Templeton, spanning 9518 investors across  countries  Asia, America and Europe, around  more than two-thirds  Indian investors are willing  pay  fee  their financiai advisors. One  the key challenges that IFAs face  again that  investor education and low levels  financiai literacy  the smaller cities. IFAs need  invest  spreading investor awareness through regular programs and campaigns beyond the top  cities. Another threat  IFAs arises out  the introduction  the direct plan option for customers. One aspect that the IFAs need  consider  technology,  its usage can help reduce operationai hassles. Their approach needs   more service oriented rather than transaction oriented. Although fund houses  not need  pay commissions  selling mutuai funds, they need  set  offices  service their clients. This wili hamper their reach   larger set  consumers. Typically, AMC  find   less expensive decision  pay commissions  distributors than communicate through other channels. One  the primary catalysts which wili lead  fund house towards growth and profitability   strong distribution network and  sustainable distribution modei.  this effect,  wili prove beneficiai for AMCs  empanei  large number  IFAs  their distribution spectrum. Other constraints  increasing penetration The debate continues over  traii-based commission modei  the advisory modei, which wili prove   more profitable and sustainable  the long run. The goai   increase retaii penetration and there are two ways  looking  . IFAs usually charge  upfront commission for any sale they make. However, moving   fuli traii commission modei for this segment may turn out   rewarding  the long run. This wili reduce exit  funds and rein  stability  the asset management business.  wili also generate higher returns for the IFAs  compared  upfront commissions,  the traii fee wili  calculated  the latest valuation  assets. PwCThe SEBI directive indicates that the amount  funds collected from exit loads wili need   credited back  the schemes. Also,  there  redemption before the designated period  one year, then the option   claw back  commissions can  exercised. Hence     the AMCs and distributors  come out with the optimai upfront-traii commission structures taking into considerations these clawback provisions. Cost concerns continue  plague the industry exerting pressure  some  the smaller fund houses, leading   sustainability issue. There  also another schooi  thought which showcases  view  captive distribution. For example,  bank-backed AMC with  captive distribution  attractive from  AMC  point  view, but  ali likelihood,   less attractive for the distributor  seli the product   single AMC.  order  tackle these challenges and lead  focussed approach  increase presence beyond the top  cities,  wili  usefui  look  what other industries have done  what other countries are doing and adopt some  the best practices. Mutuai funds need   marketed   concept  order  create  strong puli from customers. Ideally, they need   marketed  products with  maturity period ranging from five   years. Indian mutuai fund industry 11Microfinance institutions MFIs MFIs have encountered success  reaching out  customers  the bottom  the pyramid. MFIs have focussed  increased access  savings and credit  rurai areas and have demonstrated the feasibility  providing customised banking services  customers through self-help groups SHGs. Shift from  supply-led   demand- driven approach This requires  reshuffling  delivery mechanisms with respect  the time and adequacy  services offered. The intermediary environment which consists  interacting with client individuals  weli  groups  peculiar  MFIs and  responsible for the strong presence  the industry.  bottoms- approach promoting interactions with wholesalers, semi-wholesalers, individuai advisors and apex institutions can help create awareness  product details. Investing  such  detailed network wili prove beneficiai  industry players who are new entrants  Tier  cities and rurai areas. Tap self-help groups and cooperatives MFIs have focussed  increased access  savings and credit  rurai areas and have demonstrated the feasibility  providing customised banking services  SHG clients. The rurai population does not lack investing capacity, though   stili  unexplored market due  prevailing asymmetries  information. The mutuai funds industry needs How  increase the rurai footprintto accustom itself with the phenomenai spread  SHGs and customise the product delivery system, making  client-oriented. The way  scheme  pitched   semi-urban  rurai zone should vary  suit the consumer. Innovative delivery mechanisms Alternate delivery systems that involve engaging locai sociai agencies, building strategic partnerships with retailers, using the business facilitator and correspondent  franchisee models promoted  the RBI and establishing branchless operations with relevant infrastructure can  modified  suit industry requirements. FMCG industry The FMCG industry  probably one  the first industries that was successfui  breaking the physicai barriers  reach and penetrating the rurai areas with their products. Leading FMCG companies have undertaken projects such  Shakti and -choupai  stay ahead  their competitors  creating  distinct presence  the rurai areas. Four-fold strategy   leading FMCG company: Direct Coverage Indirect Coverage Streamline Project Shakti Four-fold strategy PwC Direct coverage The company appointed the same supplier  supply  ali outlets within  town and seli  limited selection  the brand portfolio. Towns are defined  populations  under , ooo people. Indirect coverage The company targeted retailers  accessible villages close  larger urban markets. Retaii suppliers were allocated  fixed route ensuring that ali accessible villages  the vicinity were served  least once  fortnight. Streamline This approach implied leveraging the rurai wholesale network  reach markets inaccessible  road. Star Sellers were appointed among wholesalers   particular village,  purchase stock from  locai distributor and then distribute this  retailers  smaller villages using locai means  transport such  cycles, rickshaws etc. Project Shakti - Project Shakti targeted the very smali villages , ooo and tapped into pre-existing women  self help groups SHG. Underprivileged rurai women were invited  become direct--consumer sales distributors for the company  products. Termed Shakti Ammas, these women represent the company and seli its home-care, health, and hygiene products  their villages.  2o1o, the company rolled out the Shaktimaan initiative through Project Shakti.  this case, the men  the Shakti Amma families distribute products  the neighbouring Shakti villages. The shaktimaan  provided with bicycles  travei  villages. Through Project Shakti and Shaktimaan, the company covers 1oo, ooo villages spanning  states  India and over  million households every month. The Telecom industry Bharati Sanchar Nigam Ltd BSNL  India had the first- mover advantage  reaching out  the rurai belt with telecom connectivity. Now however other private players are present  these markets. 1Strategy followed  telecom operators Accessibility Affordability AwarenessAvailabilityMarket segmentation Partnership with other sectors Empowerment  the rurai segment Customised marketing and distribution1 4Telecom operators have typically followed the strategy  creating awareness with their multiple promotionai campaigns providing information  customers, mostly through  and radio. Also, awareness programmes are conducted  regionai languages  establish  better connection.    prime importance that rurai customers are convinced about the product sold  them, and they are   position  purchase them.   interesting  note that the rurai segment  more adept  purchasing products  smali quantities   higher frequency. Hence BSNL  strategy  launch  INR,  INR,  INR low-value recharge coupons goes  long way  meeting customer requirements. The toughest challenge   deai with distribution, due  lack  adequate infrastructure facilities. BSNL has tied  with private vendors  make its products easily available  the rurai segment. The postai network The Department  Posts has been involved  rurai development for the last 15o years. With over 139, ooo post offices  rurai areas,  provides support  various criticai functions through communication, financiai services, life insurance products and other retaii services. The smali savings scheme which  operated through post offices helps  mobilising the savings  rurai people. The Department  also contributing  the efforts  financiai inclusion  payment  benefits under various sociai security pension schemes viz. Indira Gandhi Nationai Old Age Pension Scheme IGNOAS, Indira Gandhi Nationai Disability Pension Scheme IGNDPS and Indira Gandhi Matritva Sahyog Yojana IGMSY Scheme,  Conditionai Cash Transfer CCT Maternity Benefit Scheme. Such payments are being effected either through money orders  post office saving bank account. The mutuai fund industry can assess the strategies enumerated above and adapt best practices  penetrate the rurai markets better and increase reach.  Internationai Journai  Management and Information Technology, Volume , September 2o12; Rurai Marketing practices for telecom services, research sup - ported  Nokia Siemens network Indian mutuai fund industry 13The power  mobile banking The revolution  mobile banking  weli- equipped  penetrate rurai markets, and bring  larger number  people under the umbrella  financiai services. Mobile banking has the potentiai    game changer for the financiai services industry, because  can utilise already existing infrastructure  reach out  the -banked population  rurai areas. Additionally, new distribution channels can  explored for cash transactions beyond the POS and ATM networks  banks. Some fund houses are also riding  the mobile wave and using this route  make the operationai procedure simpler and hassle- free for investors. They can either opt for application based  SMS based investing. SMS based investing  simpler and does not require the user  have  smart phone  high internet connectivity, whereas application based services require  smart phone with GPRS connectivity. 2Leveraging mobile banking  Zimbabwe:  case study Background: Only   Africans have  bank account. Rurai branchless banking  based   business correspondent modei,  which the agent, associated with  MFI caters  specific villages. Telecom provider, Econet plans  deploy 5oo Eco-cash agents throughout Zimbabwe.  has also liaised with 2oo post offices and 3oo independent agents. How the modei works: Firstly, the user needs  register for mobile phone banking with his  her service provider, subsequent  which   she  provided with  -wallet  application linked  his  her phone number.  conduct  money transfer  paying for any service, the user needs     agent and pay the designated amount, which  then loaded   the -wallet. The payment  complete and the user can withdraw money from the agent  weli. There are various agents networked with mobile service providers across the country, facilitating the service  rurai areas. Results  the study: Most Zimbabweans own  mobile phone today  both rurai and urban areas See table below. Also, the flood  cheap Chinese products has made the mobile phone more accessible than ever.  addition, the Eco-cash product can  used without opening  bank account, just with the use   mobile. Mobile users Frequency Mobile phone users Have  cellphone    not have   Totai  1oo Learning from the study: This whole study concluded with the thought that  extract the maximum from mobile technology,   necessary  have agents   the case  Econet. The study also revealed that the rurai population  ready  pay  fee  the person who owns  mobile phone for receiving and replying  messages. Banks can  this way explore the option  bringing mobile booths  the unbanked population, and reaching out  the unbanked. With  subscriber base  over 9oo million, mobile phones can  used   huge facilitator  investing, redeeming and exiting funds!  IOSR Journai  Humanities and Sociai Science, Volume  Mobile banking the future  rurai financiai inclusion- Case study  ZimbabweTechnology   game changer PwCThough the industry has seen overali growth  the last two years,  faces  significant challenge with respect  penetration into new markets and also consolidation  the industry.  the current situation, there   urgent need  scale  business  cities beyond Tier , along with retaining existing customers. There  immense scope for the unprecedented growth  the industry and this can  rooted back  innovative and efficient use  technology. With increasing competition  this space,   imperative that funds are prepared for investment  technology  both widen customer base  weli  operate efficiently. Customer and business partner engagement: Customer Relationship Management technologies With  slew  new fund houses and banks offering new products, there   greater need now than ever  focus  customer and business partner engagement. Customer Relationship Management CRM primarily aids  getting  overali perspective  the customer  partner.  helps  providing differentiated and personalised experiences  the customer  partner based  their profile, income and business group  and past transactions. CRM helps  drawing increased revenues from customers   allows for the utilisation  available customer information  seli product suites across segments. CRM also allows for fund houses  improve business processes and drive efficiency based  customer feedback. This can act   key  customer retention  light  increased competition. With regard  partners, CRM applications provide lead management support, reporting and  channei  log incidents and provide process tracking support. Leading with technologyCreating data warehouses  integrating registrar data with finance, Human Resources and other internai data  fund houses grow, data management becomes  key issue. Implementing data management initiatives not only allows for scalability and supporting business needs within required turn-around times, but  also   platform for reporting and analytics. Along with better information management, data warehouses can provide standard and -hoc reporting capabilities  the business users, encompassing areas  customer segmentation and profitability across products and services 36o customer view, consolidated revenue data and identification  cross-selling opportunities. Near reai time integration  different registrar data with the fund house data warehouse can help the fund house  understand redemptions, withdrawals, subscriptions, switching  mutuai funds   reai time basis. Fund managers can take quicker decisions  analysing the registrar data,  they wili  able  get early warnings. Financiai analysis  different patterns  switching, subscription, redemption etc can  performed. The benefits that this offers are both  the form  enhancing operationai efficiency and developing customer centric products with  focus  profitability and better customer service. Leveraging analytics  -seli and cross-seli Data warehouses are  first step towards creating information management systems, Reporting systems and dashboards. These,  turn, can  used  different levels  management from  operationai perspective and  strategic perspective. The operationai component can broadly involve streamlining and automating business processes like sales, marketing and service. The strategic component can involve development  new products targeting new customer segments, cross-seli  existing customers and enhance customer relationship. The key  growth  the industry   tailor products  suit customer requirements. Analytics can  leveraged  create differentiation amongst products Indian mutuai fund industry 15in terms  specialisation, new features and value-additions  focus  different customer segments with different requirements. Quicker access  information and market intelligence through analytics can  used  gain insights  product positioning, understanding market share and performance  compared  other funds which can help add new distribution channels and drive more business. Thus applying advanced analyticai techniques wili maximise revenues through higher customer retention and increased wallet share achieved  providing consistent services and cross-selling. Digitai strategy enabling sales channels with mobiles  tablets The rapid growth  usage  mobiles and tablets offers  opportunity  empower sales channels  reach markets with less penetration. This can  especially effective for value added services such  Portfolio Management Services. Enabling salespersons with mobiles  tablets takes the POS  the customer allowing for faster business deals. Salespersons are able  capture business criticai information, store    centrai secure place the cloud and can access  from their devices. They can complete the deai using  tablet, starting from educating customers about products, capturing information and signatures  weli. Increased accessibility  mobile phones and the internet  Tier  and Tier III cities can  used   platform  educate consumers regarding products and its benefits. Mobiles powered with the internet can  used   important information source for unit holders and prospective investors. Mobile  tablet applications can act   touch point for customers where they can perform transactions. Applications let fund houses engage  one-- one marketing. The usage  mobiles  tablets  sales channels and has far reaching effects and can   facilitator  break down -penetrated markets. Sociai media   new marketing platform Sociai media  flourishing. Leading fund companies know that participation   longer  option, but  requirement. While sociai media cannot replace face--face communication,  can enhance the overali customer experience and create new sales and servicing opportunities. Most importantly, sociai media   longer considered  emerging technology  has arrived and  here  stay. Sociai media   huge opportunity  create awareness about products and connect with the youth today. Sociai media, when done weli, can create  collaborative dialogue with  large, but very specific audience one person   time. And,   successfui because  breaks down formai barriers. Sociai media provides  opportunity for instantaneous communication and promotes collaboration across functionai groups and geographic regions.  its most powerfui,  can bring the fuli weight  millions behind identified ideas and actions within  short time span.    misnomer that sociai media  yet another marketing platform for fund companies. From  customer-facing perspective, sociai media can definitely enhance and protect your corporate brand reputation. Increasingly,  lot  companies use sociai media  engage with customers for product innovation, customer service, distribution  reai time information with the aim  create unique solutions and experiences for customers. Sociai collaboration networks when used internally can help build  dynamic and creative work environment,  can enable organisations  instantly take the pulse  criticai organizationai issues and enable virtuai workplace solutions. Sociai business intelligence  our point  view  how companies are translating customer conversations  sociai media channels into actionable business insights. MonitorCreate awarness LeverageCreate content that propagates through sociai media Facebook pages apps  create awareness Blogs discussing products benefits Forums enabling existing customers  air their issues Monitor the effectiveness  the campaign through Analytics Impact   particular event   negative fleet  feedback, areas  weakness Hear the feedback, snoop into the discussion forums and blogs Track the customer sentiment post purchase, through the feedback captured  customer touch points,  weli   the public protected forums PwC3FINO: Leveraging technology for financiai inclusion  India Background: Financiai Information Network and Operations Private Limited FINO  India   pioneer   agent- led banking platform  reach out  the unbanked population. The modei has been able  deai with the challenges arising out  inadequate infrastructure and absence  documentation  individuals. How  works: FINO makes use  biometric technology  provide smart-card based solutions  banks across India. This technology helps identify users based  their fingerprints and services that category  people who are unable  visit  bank due  challenges  distance, illiteracy, etc. Results: FINO has presence   states and  moving towards establishing its presence  every district  India. Based  the latest statistics, FINO has over , ooo centres across India  166 districts. Currently, there are , ooo wireless, biometric terminals which simplify the user identification process, providing fast, reliable transactions. This technology also enables access  micro banking for the underprivileged , ooo, ooo card-holders registered  three years, delivering  cost-effective, secure solution. Learning from the study: The key take-away from this study  that technology can  leveraged extensively  service the bottom  the pyramid customers. The solution itself proves   cost- effective, resulting  operationai efficiencies. This technology  equipped  service  range  micro credit applications and other value added services. Investor awareness: What  being done differently today Since AMCs realised that they need  invest  financiai education and awareness  order  reap long-term benefits, campaigns  educate the customer have picked  momentum  fund houses try  bring novelty  the way they connect with their target customers. While the aim  educating the customers and making them aware  mutuai funds   investment vehicle;  times opportunities also arise where these customers show  interest  purchasing these products. Some  the notable initiatives  fund houses are: Professor Simply Simple PSS  simplify financiai terms and explain  the customer terminologies   easy way. The USP  giving lessons and videos which connect better with people. There are plans  involve investors  games  engage their interests better. Mass media campaigns which try  tackle some  the foremost questions that investors have  their minds. Currently,    print campaign with plans  launch outdoor and online campaigns. Another campaign uses the tag line Janoge tabhi  maanoge, and  involves using radio and micro-sites   medium  reach-out  investors.  Invest correctly campaign using print, digitai and outdoor media. This fund house also has  section  its website which details investor education. The Winvestor initiative which  directed towards female investors,  encourage them  plan for their future and chart their financiai plans. Financiai planning clinics are held where women get  chance  discuss their financiai queries with  female advisor Winvisor. AMFI  contribution  Investor Awareness AMFI  running  36o degree campaign, Savings  naya tarika, which was first launched  September 2o11. This nation-wide campaign with  budget  1oo million INR proved   extremely successfui, receiving  response  over , ooo messages SMS from investors. Mutuai fund booklets were sent out  these people who had responded  this campaign, with  cali centre also being set-  address queries  investors.  addition  this, AMFI has also launched television commercials  reach out   larger audience and spread investor education  attract more retaii participation.  Guide  Inclusive Business Models  IFCs portfolio case study updated   Aug 2o12 Progress  the industry: From May 2o1o  May 2o13,  AMCs have conducted , 283 programs  485 cities covering 944, 772 participants  the financiai year 2o12-,  AMCs had conducted , 2o8 programs  485 cities covering 248, o47 participants.  the current financiai year  the months  Aprii May 2o13,  AMCs have conducted , 856 programs  193 cities covering , 351 participants Indian mutuai fund industry 17Re-energising mutuai fund industry and continued focus  investor protection Regulatory updates During the year, the Securities and Exchange Board  India SEBI announced  series  measures  invigorate the mutuai fund industry, especially distribution  mutuai funds.  gist  the regulatory amendments announced during the year  appended below. Steps  -energise the industry The SEBI vide  circular1 announced the following measures: For mutuai fund investors: Separate plan for direct investors  promote direct investment  the investors  existing and new schemes, the SEBI directed mutuai funds asset management companies AMC  provide  separate plan for direct investments with  lower expense ratio. Furthermore,  commission  brokerage can  paid from such plans. Single plan structure for mutuai fund schemes  remove disparity  expense structure  different plans, the SEBI directed mutuai funds AMCs  launch schemes under  single plan, and ensure that ali new investors are subject   single expense structure. Cash investments  mutuai funds  order  enhance the reach  mutuai fund products amongst smali investors who may not  tax payers and who may not have Permanent Regulatory trendsAccount Numbers bank accounts, the SEBI permitted cash transactions  mutuai fund schemes  the extent  . , ooo per investor per mutuai fund per financiai year, subject  compliance with anti-money laundering rules and regulations. Investor education and awareness The SEBI directed mutuai funds AMCs , annually, set apart  least two basis points  daily net assets within the maximum limit  totai expense ratio TER for investor education and awareness initiatives. Harmonising applicability  Net Asset Value NAV across schemes The SEBI directed that  respect  purchase  units  mutuai fund schemes other than liquid schemes, the closing NAV  the day  which the funds are actually for available for utilisation shali  applicable irrespective  the time  receipt  application. This would apply  cases where the mutuai fund investments are made for  amount  INR  lakhs  more. Disclosure requirements The SEBI directed additionai disclosure requirements pertaining  portfolio disclosures, financiai result disclosures, etc.  mutuai funds AMCs. For distributors: Additionai TER  inflows from smaller cities towns  improve the geographicai reach  mutuai funds, AMCs are now allowed  charge additionai TER    bps with respect  inflows beyond top  cities, subject  the satisfaction  certain conditions. Widening  distributors base  increase the base  mutuai fund distributors, the SEBI has permitted  new cadre  distributors which includes postai agents, retired government and semi-government officials, retired teachers, retired bank officers and other persons such  bank correspondents  seli units  simple and performing mutuai fund schemes.  Circular . CIR IMD   2o12 dated September , 2o12 PwCFor AMCs: Service tax chargeable  scheme The SEBI allowed AMCs  charge service tax payable  investment and advisory fees  the mutuai fund scheme,  addition  the maximum amount  TER. Prudentiai limits  portfolio concentration risk The SEBI directed mutuai funds AMCs  ensure that the totai exposure  debt schemes  mutuai funds   particular sector excluding investments  Bank CDs, CBLO, -Secs, -Bills and AAA rated securities issued  Public Financiai Institutions and Public Sector Banks shali not exceed   the net assets  the scheme.  light  the important role played  the Housing Finance Companies HFC  the housing sector, the SEBI vide  subsequent circular  has permitted  additionai exposure not exceeding   net assets  the debt oriented scheme for investments  HFCs. Product Labeling  mutuai funds  address the issue  mis-selling, the SEBI vide its circular3, has, with effect from July , 2o13, directed ali existing schemes and ali schemes   launched   thereafter,   labelled considering the levei  risk associated with them. Product labels must  disclosed  the Key Information Memorandum, Scheme Information Documents and common application forms. Participation  Credit Default Swaps CDS and  repo The SEBI, vide its circular4, has permitted mutuai funds  buy credit protection  hedge the credit risk  their investments  corporate bonds, subject  compliance with the Reserve Bank  India RBI guidelines  CDS for corporate bonds. However, mutuai funds cannot seli protection, and hence they cannot enter into short positions  the CDS contracts. Deployment  client  fund  liquid mutuai funds  portfolio managers The SEBI, vide its circular5 has clarified that pending investment  funds  portfolio managers, they can deploy funds,  short term basis,  liquid mutuai fund schemes. Investments  Qualified Foreign Investors QFI The limits applicable for investments made  QFIs  mutuai funds have been revised upwards : The aggregate investments  QFIs  equity schemes  mutuai funds shali  capped   maximum  USD  billion Investment  corporate debt securities and mutuai fund debt schemes  subject   totai overali ceiling  USD  billion Additionally,   USD  billion can  invested  those debt mutuai fund schemes that hold atleast   their assets  the infrastructure sector either  debt, equity,  both Key policy announcements  Union Budget 2o13   part  the budget speech, the Finance Minister announced the following: Introduction   dedicated debt segment  the stock exchange  which debt mutuai fund schemes can  traded. Mutuai fund distributors   allowed  members  the mutuai fund segment  the stock exchange. Pension funds and provident funds   permitted  invest  exchange traded funds, debt mutuai funds and asset backed securities. Taxation updates Extension  tax benefits under RGESS Vide the Finance Act 2o13; the following amendments have been incorporated: Investments  listed units   equity oriented fund are eligible for deduction; The period  claim the deduction has been extended from one year  three consecutive years. The income threshold   individuai tax payer for being eligible  claim the deduction has been increased from INR  million  INR .  million. Speciai taxation regime for securitisation trusts The Securitisation Trust would  required  pay additionai income-tax  the income distributed  ,  follows: . Where recipients  income are not chargeable  tax for example,  illustrated  the Memorandum explaining the provisions  the Finance Bili, 2o13, mutuai funds Nii;  Circular . CIR IMD   2o12 dated November , 2o12  Circular . CIR IMD   2o13 dated March , 2o134 Circular . CIR IMD   2o12 dated November , 2o12  Circular . Cir. IMD -  2o12 dated July , 2o12 Indian mutuai fund industry 192. Individuals and HUFs ; . Any other person . Income subjected  the income distribution tax  above, shali  exempt  the hands  the recipients. Reduction  rates  Securities Transaction Tax STT for equity oriented funds Reduction  rates  Securities Transaction Tax STT for equity oriented funds The Finance Act, 2o13 has reduced the rates  STT  purchase and sale  equity oriented mutuai funds  under: Nature  transactions Before . . 2o13On and after . . 2o13 Delivery-based purchase  recognised stock exchangeo.  Nii Delivery-based sale  recognised stock exchangeo.  . oo1 Sale  the mutuai fund .  . oo1 Increase  tax rates for income distributed  debt schemes The tax rate  income distributed   debt mutuai fund scheme  increased from .   , where the income  distributed   individuai   Hindu undivided family. Infrastructure Debt Fund IDF  scheme6 Background  order  attract funds for infrastructure financing, the infrastructure debt fund scheme was launched where  NBFC   mutuai fund can set   Infrastructure Debt Fund. The salient features  the IDF  scheme are  follows: IDF MFs can  set   any existing mutuai fund. Additionally, companies which have been engaged  infrastructure financing can set- mutuai funds exclusively for the purpose  launching IDF  Schemes. IDF MFs are required  invest  least   their assets  debt securities  infrastructure companies, infrastructure speciai purpose vehicles SPV not more than    invested  listed  unlisted equity. Minimum investment  IDF  from  single investor should   least INR  million with  unit size   least INR  million. IDF MFs are required  have  firm commitment  the extent  INR 25o million from strategic investors. IDF MFs should have  minimum  five investors.  Notification . LAD-NRO  2o12-  1778 dated January , 2o13To provide fiscai incentive, the withholding rate  interest   received  non-residents from IDF, set    NBFC was reduced  . However, distribution  income   IDF- continued   distribution tax  the rate  .  .  account  this disparity  the rates, IDF- structures were   competitive disadvantage  compared  IDF-NBFC structure.  order  address the issue  the disparity  rates, the Finance Act, 2o13, has now reduced the dividend distribution tax rates for income distributed   IDF    non-resident from .    . The amendment  expected  provide impetus  IDF MFs, and could pave the way for investments  infrastructure debt schemes launched  mutuai funds. PwCOther regulatory changes Private placement Private placement  less than  investors has been permitted   alternative   new fund offer  the public.  the case  private placement, the mutuai funds would have  file  placement memorandum with the SEBI, instead   scheme information document and  key information memorandum. Widening  strategic investors The universe  strategic investors  the IDF  has been expanded  include, systemically important NBFCs registered with RBI and certain categories  Foreign Institutionai Investors which are long term investors  per the norms specified  SEBI. Debt securities below investment grade The overali investments   infrastructure debt scheme  debt instruments  assets  infrastructure companies projects SPVs, which are rated below the investment grade  are unrated, shali not exceed   the net assets  the scheme. However, the limit may increase    with the prior approvai  the AMC. Overseas Regulatory developments Europe Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD   European Directive which aims  providing  harmonised regulatory and supervisory framework for managers  Alternative Investment Funds AIFs within the . AIFMD has issued rules regarding the organisation and business  the managers, imposes certain new requirements  the AIFs and allows their marketing  professionai investors via  passport throughout the . The ultimate deadline for  Member States  transpose the AIFMD into their nationai law  July 2o13. The following European countries namely the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Luxembourg, France, Germany, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Ireland, Latvia, Malta, Slovakia and Sweden have taken steps  transpose the AIFMD into their nationai law. Promotion  globai supervisory -operation  alternative funds The European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA has recently agreed -operation arrangements between  securities regulators and   their globai counterparts. ESMA has acted  behalf  ali   Member State securities regulators  weli for Croatia, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway. These arrangements concerned the authorities  charge  the supervision  AIFs hedge funds, private equity and reai estate funds  improve -operation  the cross-border supervision  depositaries and AIF managers  facilitating the exchange  information. The arrangements wili also apply  non- fund managers that manage  market AIFs  the   weli the opposite:  fund managers that manage  market AIFs  third countries. The -operation arrangements  the form   Memorandum  Understanding wili  applicable  from July , 2o13. Currently  Memorandums  Understanding have been approved including jurisdictions such  the USA, Canada, Brazii, India, Switzerland, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and Guernsey; negotiations are stili open and further authorities should follow. United Kingdom  regulatory reform The   regulatory structure changed from Aprii , 2o13. The Financiai Services Authority FSA was replaced  the Financiai Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudentiai Regulation Authority PRA. The vast majority  asset managers are solely regulated  the FCA. Authorised contractuai schemes Her Majesty  Treasury HMT and the FCA are taking steps towards making the  more competitive with popular fund domiciles such  Dublin and Luxembourg with their proposals  introduce authorised contractuai schemes ACS into the - authorised fund modei. ACS were first consulted   January 2o12 but have stili not yet been finalised and launched. The finalisation  expected  the next few months. ACS wili  tax transparent  that the schemes themselves pay  tax, only the underlying investors. HMT proposes two types  ACS:  -ownership fund and  partnership fund. Investors  the -ownership fund would have  undivided share  the scheme property . .  investor has claim  particular assets. -ownership funds  SEBI Mutuai Funds Amendment Regulations, 2o11 vide notification dated August , 2o11 Indian mutuai fund industry 21would  similar  structure  authorised unit trusts, with the manager and the depositary entering into  trust deed. Partnership funds would have  generai partner,  depositary who wili   limited partner, and investors  limited partners. Marketing unregulated collective investment schemes UCIS  retaii investors The FCA recently published finai rules  how UCIS can  marketed not   confused with Undertakings for Collective Investment  Transferable Securities UCITS.  untii now many  distributors have marketed UCIS  retaii investors  the . The FCA believes this has led  much consumer detriment because UCIS can  complex, invest  highly illiquid assets and  too risky for many retaii investors. Therefore, the FCA has chosen  ban advisers from distributing UCIS  ordinary retaii investors high net worth individuals and sophisticated retaii investors are  xempt from these new rules. UCIS are defined  being any funds not authorised  the . This can even have  impact  funds authorised  other countries either inside  outside the  that are sold  the . Retaii Distribution Review The retaii distribution review RDR was introduced  the   the  December 2o12. RDR makes  number  changes  the   distribution modei, most notably banning commission for advisers from fund purchases and enforcing adviser charging instead, whereby individuals pay their advisers directly. Changes are expected  the  platform market where many individuals buy their investments without advice. Financiai Transaction Tax The European Commission issued  new draft Councii Directive  implement   FTT   countries. The Directive has  very broad scope and wili have  impact  both  and non-  financiai institutions. The costs  the tax coupled with the major operationai changes that wili  required  comply with the regime wili result  the  FTT being  significant cost for financiai institutions and their clients. The Directive could have  heavy impact  investment firms, UCITS and their management companies, AIFs and their managers, pension funds and their investment managers. PwCThe United States  America FATCA   January 2o13, the . . Department  the Treasury and the Internai Revenue Service IRS issued the finai regulations  FATCA. The 544 page document requires non- financiai institutions with ali the information needed   terms information reporting, and withholding requirements for foreign financiai institutions, other foreign entities, and . . withholding agents. Asia ASEAN Fund Passport The ASEAN Disclosure Standards Scheme for multi- jurisdiction offerings  equity and plain debt securities  ASEAN came into effect  -  Aprii 2o13. Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand are the first three nations who have entered into this Scheme which replaces  earlier scheme also known  the ASEAN and Plus Standards Scheme enacted  2oo9. The implementation  this scheme    opt- basis for ASEAN countries and only applies  offers  shares and plain debt securities. The following are excluded: Options, warrants  any other rights  interest  shares  debt securities; and Debt securities other than plain debt securities. According   statement from the Monetary Authority  Singapore, other ASEAN members wili soon  adopting the scheme  weli once they are ready. Singapore Enhanced regulatory regime for Fund Management Companies The Monetary Authority  Singapore has issued the enhanced regulatory regime for fund management companies. This took effect from  August 2o12, with certain transition provisions.  reinforces the professionai duty  care that fund managers have  their investors and the important role that they must play  ensuring the sustainability  Singapore  fund management industry, which   turn criticai  ensuring the long-term success  otherwise  their own businesses. Japan Japanese Individuai Savings Account Amongst ali the measures taken  the Japanese authorities  incentivise households  invest their assets through the financiai market, the Japanese Individuai Savings Account ISA scheme  expected  provide major opportunities  the asset management industry. The scheme has been inspired  the British modei, and wili  effective  from January 2o14 for  initiai ten year period. Dividends and capitai gains  eligible investments placed under  ISA dedicated account wili  exempted from tax. United Arab Emirates New regulations  investment funds This new regulation covers the requirements for the establishment, operation and marketing  both domestic Indian mutuai fund industry  and foreign funds  the UAE. Regarding the distribution   foreign fund  the UAE, the main changes are  follows: The distribution  the public and private placement   foreign fund  the UAE  subject  the approvai  the Securities and Commodities Authority SCA.  locally licensed placement agent must  appointed regardless  whether the foreign fund  publicly offered  promoted  way  private placement.  foreign fund can  marketed for public distribution  the UAE subject  certain conditions. Another significant change  that the responsibility for licensing and marketing investment funds has been transferred from the UAE Centrai Bank  the SCA. Australia Investment Manager Regime Globai competition  attract mobile capitai has driven tax concessions  lower taxes for foreign investors. The driver for the Investment Manager Regime IMR was not  much about offering tax concessions but more  reduce tax uncertainty. The aim  the IMR   reduce the tax uncertainty that has been  disincentive for foreign funds seeking  invest  Australia and use Australian intermediaries. Following consultation with industry,   Aprii 2o13, the treasury released  exposure draft for the finai element  the IMR. Consultation with industry wili continue and subsequently submissions can  made. PwCSome key insights Long-term performance  attract retaii investors,  stable long-term performance  funds  most desirable. Asset management companies with  good track record over  period  time wili  successfui  drawing more funds from investors. Uncertain market environment Going forward sluggish economic growth, high rate  inflation and slowdown  consumer demand  predicted  2o13. This has  turn adversely affected the investors ability  invest  financiai markets. Investors are hesitant  approach capitai markets and wary  risk  these challenging times. Attractiveness  income funds   scenario where inflation  high and the RBI  lowering interest rates, investors are showing  interest  the fixed income market. Riding  the expectation that rates could  cut further  2o13, the market looks promising for gilt funds, bond funds and income funds. Positioning mutuai funds   long term product Mutuai funds need   positioned appropriately   long term product  the investor  mind. Distributors hence need   incentivised adequately  order  seli the product correctly  investors. Our conversations with industry stakeholdersCommission structure The clawback  commissions has incentivised some investors  shift   traii modei. Nationai distributors  the other hand are hesitant,  they are always under pressure  meet short-term targets,  which case, earning  upfront commission works better for them. Additionai totai expense ratio TER The directive  totai expense ratio has given  lift  sales  - cities. This has been  weli-thought out move from the regulator  side, and has helped  align the interests  various stakeholders  the industry  some extent. Overseas mutuai fund players evaluate acquisition opportunities  Indian AMCs With multiple positive regulatory changes taking place  the Indian market, overseas players are likely  gauge the opportunity  increasing penetration. Infrastructure debt funds There  huge opportunity  the category  infrastructure debt funds, given the heavy investments  infrastructure planned for India. This can prove    lucrative area for fund houses and launching new funds  this space could reap huge returns. Online technology Many fund houses face operationai issues trying  incorporate technology into their processes. Also, continuous updating and migration pose  problem. Consolidation  the industry Increasing competition and cost burden  the market players are leading   phase  consolidation  the industry. For smaller fund houses, sustainability and profitability   key concern, stemming from high distribution and operationai costs. Indian mutuai fund industry  Disciplined investing  the key  efficient asset allocation wili cushion against  downside  the market environment. PwCDistribution path Increase the distribution strength Compared  the insurance sales force, the strength  the mutuai fund network appears   dismai. Quoting  industry CEO, there are over .  million insurance agents  India, while only , ooo distributors for mutuai funds. This data implies that investors are likely  meet insurance agents much more frequently than mutuai fund distributors and hence likely  park their surplus funds  insurance policies rather than mutuai fund products. Alternative distribution modei The mutuai fund industry needs  explore  alternative mode  distribution, for expansion and growth. The option   tied distribution modei could  explored, where the agent  tied   particular institution. Although this modei has worked  some countries  leans towards  closed architecture modei, restricting the choice  the investor. The viability  its success  India needs   measured. Fund houses can also look  the possibility  investing   active sales force. The online channei  distribution also exists, although its fuli potentiai has not been exploited  yet. Need  upgrade distribution networks  the current scenario, the industry needs willingness from asset management companies  invest more  the distributor community. The smaller asset management companies due  lack  funds, find  more challenging  invest  the distribution channei. Training and educating the distributors are integrai  increasing penetration Looking ahead: Our recommendationsof mutuai fund products. New cadre  distributors  take the industry forward The new cadre  distributors such  postai agents, retired officials and schooi teachers, etc wili likely rake  inflows from smaller towns and cities. This cadre  distributors wili  cruciai  mobilising the savings  the smaller towns and directing these savings towards mutuai fund investments. Product design Mutuai fund products need   simplified  they have  sold  the masses through  public sector bank channei. The product needs  mimic  fixed deposit, and provide  predictable income. Also, these products need   solution oriented.  the past, some fund houses launched similar schemes with minor differences. The SEBI has directed  move towards  consolidation  schemes  make the process simpler for investors.  the right product  solution  not available   sold  customers,  wili  difficult  create  puli factor. Technology mix  overcome operationai challenges, measures need   taken  improve the existing infrastructure and  bring  more efficiency while increasing the scale  operations. This  not possible without the back-   good technology mix.   also  key facilitator  break down under-penetrated markets. The Indian mutuai fund industry faces  lot  limitations with respect  product design and construction  compared  other markets. Indian mutuai fund industry 27Continuation  investor awareness initiatives Nationai awareness campaigns for mutuai funds continue  remain  focus area for fund houses and distributors. Distributors and IFAs are taking  upon themselves  educate the investor and make them aware  the benefits  investing  mutuai funds. The AMCs are trying  think  innovative ways  reaching the investors  smaller towns and cities and mobilise their savings. Investors should  aware  the sectors  which they are investing and should have  clear outlook  the performance  their investments, with ali the risks explained. Servicing the customers and guiding them  achieve their financiai goals over  period  time wili lead the industry towards sustainability and asset retention. The plan should   manage assets and not just gather assets. PwCGrowth  systematic investment plans Fund managers need  enhance the growth  their systematic investment plan books. These plans have the capacity  deai with volatility over  long-time horizon and generate steady returns. Focus  service initiatives Fund houses can create  differentiator for themselves  offering  premium service proposition. The initiative  increase distribution needs   matched with service quality  investors and distributors alike  else increased penetration wili not attain its fuli value. Tax   Enabler The past period has witnessed adverse impacts arising out  uncertainty created  the tax front. While some  these have been rationalised  the authorities, such  the deferrai  GAAR and the amendment  taxability  securitisation trusts, there are other areas which have created anxiety  the industry. The role  tax can  enhanced    growth enabler  various fronts - some examples include enabling the management  offshore funds from India, tax breaks  pension products and simplification  processes around the QFI regime. Multiple share class structure Some industry CEOs believe that  multiple share class structure can possibly   viable modei for the domestic mutuai fund industry.  this kind   structure, each share class can have its own expense ratio. Pension products Lastly,   have recommended  our previous reports  weli,  believe that allowing the fund houses  seli pension products wili act   huge catalyst for growth  the industry. This move wili energise AMCs, distributors and investors alike, while contributing  the deepening  capitai markets  India. Indian mutuai fund industry 29The outlook  the mutuai fund industry  governed   great extent  the economic situation  the country, which  predicted  kindle volatility due  the upcoming elections  2o14. The current economic scenario with sticky inflation and rising fuei prices  likely  adversely impact perceptions, resulting  depressed equity inflows into the market. Steps need   taken  instii confidence  the minds  the investor and  encourage him  invest  mutuai funds, even  times  uncertainty.  believe that the mutuai fund industry manifests huge opportunity for growth and further penetration, and this can  achieved over time, with support from technology. The key lies  strengthening distribution networks and enhancing levels  investor education  increase presence  rurai areas.  terms  opportunity, the infrastructure debt market has become very attractive, luring investors  invest  this space. Also,   criticai for the industry  this point  assess and capitalise the value that pension products bring  the growth  the mutuai fund industry. Lastly,  may perhaps  usefui  the mutuai fund industry emulated some best practices from other industries and sectors  transition  the next levei  growth. Conclusion PwCAbout CII The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the development  India, partnering industry, Government, and civii society, through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organization, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 118 years ago, India  premier business association has over 71oo members, from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo enterprises from around 257 nationai and regionai sectorai industry bodies. CII charts change  working closely with Government  policy issues, interfacing with thought leaders, and enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and business opportunities for industry through  range  specialized services and strategic globai linkages.  also provides  platform for consensus-building and networking  key issues. Extending its agenda beyond business, CII assists industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with civii society organizations carry forward corporate initiatives for integrated and inclusive development across diverse domains including affirmative action, healthcare, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development, empowerment  women, and water,  name  few. The CII Theme for 2o13-  Accelerating Economic Growth through Innovation, Transformation, Inclusion and Governance. Towards this, CII advocacy wili accord top priority  stepping  the growth trajectory  the nation, while retaining  strong focus  accountability, transparency and measurement  the corporate and sociai eco-system, building  knowledge economy, and broad-basing development  help deliver the fruits  progress  ali. With  offices, including  Centres  Excellence,  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, France, Singapore, South Africa, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Confederation  Indian Industry CII Western Region 1o5, Kakad Chambers 132  Annie Besant Road Worli, Mumbai 4oo o18 Maharashtra, India Phone:   2493 179o Fax:   2493 9463 2494 5831 Emaii: ciiwr cii.  Website: www. cii.   would like  take this opportunity  thank ali the team members for their contribution  the creation and finalisation  this report. Acknowledgements Arun Swaminathan Avinash Kalia Armin Choksey Gautam Mehra Harsha Nallur Jay ShahJesai  LakdawalaManoj Kashyap Nehai  Sampat Pallavi Dhingra Rajesh Nathwani Trisha Chatterji Vivek Prasad Vivek Belgavi About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Manoj  Kashyap Leader Financiai Services Tei:   666914o1 Emaii: manoj. . kashyap . pwc. comGautam MehraLeader Asset Management Tei:   66891155 Emaii: gautam. mehra . pwc. comAvinash Kalia Associate Director Tei:   66691351 Emaii: avinash. kalia . pwc. com pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - June 2o13 Indian mutuai fund industry. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India