Title: pwc_handbook-on-corporate-social-responsibility-in-india
Date Published: 2013-12-16 11:50:17+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_handbook-on-corporate-social-responsibility-in-india.pdf
Word Count: 8873
Sentence Count: 685
Average Sentence Length: 20.69

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
csr: 247
companies: 116
company: 94
activities: 91
sociai: 72
act: 69
india: 68
project: 64
development: 62
corporate: 58
business: 53
wili: 52
policy: 47
responsibility: 43
process: 42
community: 41
implementation: 41
also: 40
organisation: 38
committee: 36

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  Indiawww. pwc.  Message from the Cha irman CII  Development Initiative Councii  robust and thriving development sector  centrai  India  quest for equitable, inclusive and sustainable growth. India  development sector has evolved substantially over the last few decades and  now witnessing unprecedented interest and investments across the value chain. With the passage  the Companies Act, 2o13 the mandate for corporate sociai responsibility CSR has been formally introduced  the dashboard  the Boards  Indian companies. The industry has responded positively  the reform measure undertaken  the government with  wide interest across the public and private sector, Indian and multinationai companies. The practice  CSR  not new  companies  India. However, what this Act does  bring more companies into the fold. Also,   likely that the totai CSR spends wili increase. What  clear  many companies  that  this increased spending   achieve results  the ground which  the intent  the Act then  needs   done strategically, systematically and thoughtfully.    this context, that the Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India developed  PwC India for CII can play  important role. The CII being the leading industry body, through this handbook, envisages equipping companies for this shift  structured engagement with communities. This handbook  aimed both  companies that are veteran CSR practitioners  weli  those that are just entering the fray.  suggests steps  develop  CSR strategy and Policy and identifies the key building blocks for initiating and developing the CSR programs.  walks the CSR practitioner through some  the key choices that may  required   made while pursuing CSR objectives and develop  organisation that  socially sensitive and responsible. Building  society which provides equai access  opportunities negates disparities and,   collective responsibility. This Act presents  unique opportunity  stand   the challenge.    cali for action. And this handbook   significant step  that direction. Rakesh Bharti Mittai Chairman, CII  Development Initiative Councii and Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Bharti Enterprises Message from the Mentor and Chairman Emeritus Fortis Healthcare Limited The constitutionai structure  the country was laid with  objective  one man equals one vote, equals one value. However the socio-economic realities  the country stili have  long way    match this vision  independent India where today there are many first among equals. The country presently  under intense debate  developmentai growth versus welfare based development. Our politicai realities and our economic senses are  cross-roads. How   strike  balance between the two? The choices  make today are going  influence our generations  come. Every single major policy initiative  this country has been driven with  perspective that  overwhelming concern for the disadvantaged and marginalised,  multidimensionai view  poverty and human deprivation, the focus  our fundamentai rights and the need  expand opportunities while ensuring its equai distribution are fundamentai for achieving strong human development. But disparity, inequality and the growing divide  our societies define our existence today. The inclusion  the CSR mandate under the Companies Act, 2o13   attempt  supplement the governments efforts  equitably delivering the benefits  growth and  engage the Corporate World with the country  development agenda. Philanthropy and CSR  not  novei concept for Indian companies, however  few organisations are likely  struggle. The role  civii society  fuelling this change  bound   extremely important. With the new corporate resources  their tooi bag much wili depend  their ability  innovate and adapt. The handbook   guidance document which wili facilitate development  CSR mandate within organisations and help streamline dialogue within the industry.  addendum wili follow with details  the rules once the same have been notified  the Government. The members  the industry are likely  find their output helpfui, informative and enabling. Confederation  Indian Industry has been  the forefront  sensitising industry  CSR and creating necessary enablers for promoting CSR for over  decade.   confident that ali companies wili  immensely benefitted from this document too.  would like  extend  warm appreciation  the PwC team, including Sachin Shukla, Sharique Ahmad, Anjan Katna, Ankit Gupta and Shankar Venkateswaran who worked towards the development  this document. Harpai Singh Mentor and Chairman Emeritus, Fortis Healthcare Limited BRR Business Responsibility Report CSR Corporate sociai responsibility DPE Department  Public Enterprises  European Commission ESG Environmentai, sociai and governance ILO Internationai Labour Organisation ISO Internationai Organisation for Standardisation LBG London Benchmarking Group modei MCA Ministry  Corporate Affairs NVG Nationai Voluntary Guidelines OECD Organisation for Economic -operation and Development SEBI Securities and Exchange Board  India SME Smali and medium enterprises SAAS Sociai accountability accreditation services SGAAP Sociai generally accepted accounting principles SROI Sociai return  investments  United Nations UNGC United Nations Globai Compact UNIDO United Nations Industriai Development Organisation WBCSD World Business Councii for Sustainable DevelopmentList  abbreviations Contents  Wha   CSR?  The Companies Act, 2o13  CSR: Planning and strategising  CSR and SMEs  App endices About the handbook India   country  myriad contradictions.  the one hand,  has grown   one  the largest economies  the world, and  increasingly important player  the emerging globai order,  the other hand,   stili home  the largest number  people living  absolute poverty even  the proportion  poor people has decreased and the largest number  undernourished children. What emerges   picture  uneven distribution  the benefits  growth which many believe,  the root cause  sociai unrest. Companies too have been the target  those perturbed  this uneven development and   result, their contributions  society are under severe scrutiny. With increasing awareness  this gap between the haves and the have-nots, this scrutiny wili only increase over time and societai expectations wili   the rise. Many companies have been quick  sense this development, and have responded proactively while others have done  only when pushed. Governments  weli  regulators have responded  this unrest and the Nationai Voluntary Guidelines for Sociai, Environmentai and Economic Responsibilities  Business  the NVGs accompanied  the Business Responsibility Reports mandated  the SEBI for the top 1oo companies and the CSR clause within the Companies Act, 2o13 are two such instances  the steps taken. According  Indian Institute  Corporate Affairs,  minimum  , ooo Indian companies wili  required  undertake CSR projects  order  comply with the provisions  the Companies Act, 2o13 with many companies undertaking these initiatives for the first time. Further, some estimates indicate that CSR commitments from companies can amount   much  , ooo crore INR. This combination  regulatory  weli  societai pressure has meant that companies have  pursue their CSR activities more professionally. This handbook attempts  bring together good practices  companies and grant-making foundations    assist companies pursue their CSR activities effectively, while remaining aligned with the requirements  the Companies Act, 2o13. This handbook begins  building  common understanding  the concept  CSR, based  globai practices, Indian tradition, and the intent and provisions  the Companies Act, 2o13.  then goes   bring out the key aspects  clause 135  the Companies Act, 2o13 and the recently released draft rules, and highlights its implications  companies.  major part  the handbook focuses  the what and how  strategising, planning, executing and monitoring the CSR activities  companies.  provides  detailed guidance rather than prescriptions for each  these processes covering the following: Objective  the process Process owners Key inputs and outputs Activities  tasks   covered, including methodology and timelines Tools, technicai guidance  standards   employed  also has  section  what smali and medium enterprises, some  whom wili  required  comply with the Act, can  collectively.  PwC What  CSR? Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 7What  CSR? The globai context While there may   single universally accepted definition  CSR, each definition that currently exists underpins the impact that businesses have  society  large and the societai expectations  them. Although the roots  CSR lie  philanthropic activities such  donations, charity, relief work, etc.  corporations, globally, the concept  CSR has evolved and now encompasses ali related concepts such  triple bottom line, corporate citizenship, philanthropy, strategic philanthropy, shared value, corporate sustainability and business responsibility. This  evident  some  the definitions presented below: The EC1 defines CSR  the responsibility  enterprises for their impacts  society.  completely meet their sociai responsibility, enterprises should have  place  process  integrate sociai, environmentai, ethicai human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy  close collaboration with their stakeholders The WBCSD defines CSR as2 the continuing commitment  business  contribute  economic development while improving the quality  life  the workforce and their families  weli   the community and society  large. According  the UNIDO3, Corporate sociai responsibility   management concept whereby companies integrate sociai and environmentai concerns  their business operations and interactions with their stakeholders. CSR  generally understood  being the way through which  company achieves  balance  economic, environmentai and sociai imperatives Triple-Bottom-Line Approach, while  the same time addressing the expectations  shareholders and stakeholders.  this sense   important  draw  distinction between CSR, which can   strategic business management concept, and charity, sponsorships  philanthropy. Even  http: . europa.  enterprise policies sustainable- business corporate-sociai-responsibility index_ . htm  http: www. wbcsd. org work-program business- role previous-work corporate-sociai-responsibility. aspx  http: www. unido. org what-- trade csr what- -csr. htmi pp1    Brundtland Commission  Report, 1987 though the latter can also make  valuable contribution  poverty reduction, wili directly enhance the reputation   company and strengthen its brand, the concept  CSR clearly goes beyond that. From the above definitions,   clear that: The CSR approach  holistic and integrated with the core business strategy for addressing sociai and environmentai impacts  businesses. CSR needs  address the weli-being  ali stakeholders and not just the company  shareholders. Philanthropic activities are only  part  CSR, which otherwise constitutes  much larger set  activities entailing strategic business benefits. CSR  India CSR  India has traditionally been seen   philanthropic activity. And  keeping with the Indian tradition,  was  activity that was performed but not deliberated.   result, there  limited documentation  specific activities related  this concept. However, what was clearly evident that much  this had  nationai character encapsulated within , whether  was endowing institutions  actively participating  India  freedom movement, and embedded  the idea  trusteeship.  some observers have pointed out, the practice  CSR  India stili remains within the philanthropic space, but has moved from institutionai building educationai, research and culturai  community development through various projects. Also, with globai influences and with communities becoming more active and demanding, there appears    discernible trend, that while CSR remains largely restricted  community development,   getting more strategic  nature that , getting linked with business than philanthropic, and  large number  companies are reporting the activities they are undertaking  this space  their officiai websites, annuai reports, sustainability reports and even publishing CSR reports. The Companies Act, 2o13 has introduced the idea  CSR  the forefront and through its disclose--explain mandate,  promoting greater transparency and disclosure. Schedule VII  the Act, which lists out the CSR activities, suggests communities   the focai point.  the other hand,  discussing  company  relationship  its stakeholders and integrating CSR into its core operations, the draft rules suggest that CSR needs   beyond communities and beyond the concept  philanthropy.  wili  interesting  observe the ways  which this wili translate into action  the ground levei, and how the understanding  CSR  set  undergo  change. CSR and sustainability Sustainability corporate sustainability  derived from the concept  sustainable development which  defined  the Brundtland Commission  development that meets the needs  the present without compromising the ability  future generations  meet their own needs . Corporate sustainability essentially refers  the role that companies can play  meeting the agenda  sustainable development and entails  balanced approach  economic progress, sociai progress and environmentai stewardship. CSR  India tends  focus  what  done with profits after they are made.  the other hand, sustainability  about factoring the sociai and environmentai impacts  conducting business, that , how profits are made. Hence, much  the Indian practice  CSR   important component  sustainability  responsible business, which   larger idea,  fact that  evident from various sustainability frameworks.  interesting case  point  the NVGs for sociai, environmentai and economic responsibilities  business issued  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs  June 2o11. Principle eight relating  inclusive development encompasses most  the aspects covered  the CSR clause  the Companies Act, 2o13. However, the remaining eight principles relate  other aspects  the business. The  Globai Compact,  widely used sustainability framework has  principles covering sociai, environmentai, human rights and governance issues, and what  described  CSR  implicit rather than explicit  these principles.  PwCGlobally, the notion  CSR and sustainability seems   converging,   evident from the various definitions  CSR put forth  globai organisations. The genesis  this convergence can  observed from the preamble  the recently released draft rules relating  the CSR clause within the Companies Act, 2o13 which talks about stakeholders and integrating  with the sociai, environmentai and economic objectives, ali  which constitute the idea   triple bottom line approach.   also acknowledged  the Guidelines  Corporate Sociai Responsibility and Sustainability for Centrai Public Sector Enterprises issued  the DPE  Aprii 2o135. The new guidelines, which have replaced two existing separate guidelines  CSR and sustainable development, issued  2o1o and 2o11 respectively, mentions the following: Since corporate sociai responsibility and sustainability are  closely entwined,  can  said that corporate sociai responsibility and sustainability   company  commitment  its stakeholders  conduct business   economically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner that  transparent and ethicai.  Guidelines  Corporate Sociai Responsibility and Sustainability for Centrai Public Sector Enterprises -http: www. recindia. nic.  download DPE_Guide - lines_CSR_Sust. pdf Why  the CSR clause  the new Companies Act, 2o13  criticai for SMEs?  requiring companies, with  minimum net profit   crore INR,  spend  CSR activities, the Companies Act, 2o13  likely  bring  many SMEs into the CSR fold. This wili usher   fresh set  challenges   sector that  increasingly being asked  its B2B customers  comply with environmentai and sociai standards, while remaining competitive  terms  price and quality. Thus, SMEs wili have  quickly learn   compliant with these diverse set  requirements and   hoped that this handbook wili facilitate their ability  comply with the CSR clause  the Companies Act, 2o13. Benefits   robust CSR programme  the business environment gets increasingly complex and stakeholders become vocai about their expectations, good CSR practices can only bring  greater benefits, some  which are  follows: Communities provide the licence  operate: Apart from internai drivers such  values and ethos, some  the key stakeholders that influence corporate behaviour include governments through laws and regulations, investors and customers.  India,  fourth and increasingly important stakeholder  the community, and many companies have started realising that the licence  operate   longer given  governments alone, but communities that are impacted   company  business operations. Thus,  robust CSR programme that meets the aspirations  these communities not only provides them with the licence  operate, but also  maintain the licence, thereby precluding the trust deficit. Attracting and retaining employees: Severai human resource studies have linked  company  ability  attract, retain and motivate employees with their CSR commitments. Interventions that encourage and enable employees  participate are shown  increase employee morale and  sense  belonging  the company. Communities  suppliers: There are certain innovative CSR initiatives emerging, wherein companies have invested  enhancing community livelihood  incorporating them into their supply chain. This has benefitted communities and increased their income levels, while providing these companies with  additionai and secure supply chain. Enhancing corporate reputation: The traditionai benefit  generating goodwili, creating  positive image and branding benefits continue  exist for companies that operate effective CSR programmes. This allows companies  position themselves  responsible corporate citizens. Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 9Globai principles and guidelines  comprehensive guidance for companies pertaining  CSR  available  the form  severai globally recognised guidelines, frameworks, principles and tools, some  which are discussed below.  must  noted that most  these guidelines relate  the larger concept  sustainability  business responsibility,  keeping with the fact that these concepts are closely aligned globally with the notion  CSR. UNGC UNGC  world  largest corporate citizenship initiative with the objective  mainstream the adoption  sustainable and socially responsible policies  businesses around the world. The  principles  the  Globai Compact have been derived from various  conventions such  the Universai Declaration  Human Rights, ILO  Declaration  Fundamentai Principles and Rights  Work, the Rio Declaration  environment and development, and the  Convention Against Corruption. These prin - ciples cover four broad areas: Human rights support and respect the protection  internationai human rights and ensure that business  not complicit with human rights abuses Labour rights uphold the freedom   - sociation and effective recognition  the right  collective bargaining, elimination  ali forms  forced and compulsory labour, effective abolition  child labour and elimination  description  respect  employment and occupation Environment support  precautionary approach  environmentai challenges, undertake initiatives  promote greater environmentai responsibility and encour - age the development  environmentai friendly technology Governance work against corruption  ali forms, including bribery and extor - tion. For more details refer the website  UNGC 6The  Guiding Principles  Business and Human Rights The  guiding principles provide assistance  states and businesses  fulfii their existing obligations towards respecting and protecting human rights and fundamentai freedoms and comply with the existing laws. These principles act  globai standards for addressing the risk  human rights violation related  business activity.  circumstances when these laws are breached  the guidance  not adhered , suitable remedies have also been recom - mended. The primary focus   the protec - tion  human rights  both, the state and the business enterprises, and the principles broadly outline the manner  which the framework can  implemented. For more details refer the website  Office  the High Commissioner for Human Rights7 ILO  tripartite declaration  principles  multinationai enterprises and sociai policy This  another voluntary declaration whose adoption  governments, employers and mui - tinationai organisations  encouraged, with the intention  further ensuring labour and sociai standards. This  particularly for organisations that operate across multiple countries. Focus   core labour standards such   freedom  association and the right  collective bargain - ing prohibition  discrimination, bonded and forced labour  industriai relations  trade union restrictions, regular discussions between management and labour, and the provision   forum  lodge complaints  case  labour standard violation iii employment opportu - nities creation  job security, improved living and working conditions and ensuring that wages are  par with those  other enter - prises  the same country. For more details refer the website  ILO8 OECD Guidelines: Multinationai enterprises OECD Guidelines for multinationai enterprises elaborate  the principles and standards for responsible business conduct for multinationai corporations. These guidelines were recently updated  2o11. They cover areas such  employment, human rights, environment, information disclosure, combating bribery, consumer interests, science and technology, competition and taxation. They contain defined standards for socially and environmentally responsible corporate behaviour, and also pro - vide procedures for resolving disputes between corporations and communities  individuals adversely impacted  business activities. For more details refer the website  OECD9Institute  Sociai and Ethicai Account - ability: AccountAbility  AA1ooo series  standards This   series  standards which enable  - ganisations  become accountable, responsible and sustainable.  consists  the  AA1ooo accountability principles  standard  AA1ooo assurance standard  iii AA1ooo stakeholder engagement  standard. Since these standards have been formulated through  multi-stakeholder consultation process, they ensure that those impacted that , enter - prises, governments and civii societies stand  gain. The Vodafone Group Plc has adopted the AA1oooAP standard  focussing  three broad areas:  inclusivity stakeholder  - gagement  develop and implement  strategic approach  sustainability  materiality assess the management effort required for each materiai issue and determine the content  sustainability reports iii responsiveness respond with solutions  materiai issues and challenges. For more details refer the website  Account - Ability1o Sociai Accountability Internationai SAI:  8ooo Standard This  one  the world  first auditable sociai certification standard.   based  ILO,  and nationai law conventions, and adopts  management system approach  order  ensure that companies that adopt this approach also comply with . This standard ensures the protection  basic human rights  workers. The nine basic elements  this standard  - clude  child labour  forced and compui - sory labour iii health and safety  freedom  association and the right  collective bargaining  discrimination  disciplinary practices vii working hours viii remunera - tion  management systems. According  SAAS, there are 695 facilities  India that have been accredited with this standard. Out  these, Aditya Birla Chemicals India Limited, Bhilai Steei Plant Steei Authority  India Limited, Birla tyres,  Reddy  Laboratories Limited and Reliance Infrastructure Limited figure prominently  the list  certified facili - ties within India. For more details refer the website  SAI11  www. unglobalcompact. org  http: www. ohchr. org Documents Publications GuidingPrinciplesBusinessHR_EN. pdf  http: www. ilo. org empent Publications WCMS_o94386 lang-- index. htm  http: oecdwatch. org about-oecd guidelines  http: www. accountability. org standards  http: www. -inti. org index. cfm? fuseaction Page. ViewPage PageID 937  PwCISO 26ooo: Sociai responsibility This   guidance tooi provided  the ISO which enables organisations  understand the meaning and significance  sociai responsi - bility.   important  note that this  not  certification but only  guiding tooi. Hence,  - ganisations which comply with these standards are self-certified.  covers six core areas  sociai responsibility, including  human rights  labour practices iii environment  fair operating practices  consumer issues  community involvement and development. This ensures  holistic approach  the concept  sociai responsibility and sustainable develop - ment. For more details refer the website  ISO12 OECD CSR policy tooi The OECD CSR policy tooi aims  help companies gain insight into their current CSR activities, assess its value and determine other CSR activities that can  employed. This policy tooi  based  the OECD Guidelines and the ISO26ooo implementation guidelines. The  - sult  the policy tooi   complete CSR policy, including  action plan with tasks, responsi - bilities and  communication strategy plan. For more details refer the website  OECD13 Globai Compact Self-Assessment Tooi The Globai Compact Self Assessment Tooi   easy--use guide designed for use  compa - nies  ali sizes and across sectors committed  upholding the sociai and environmentai standards within their respective operations. The tooi consists   questions with  set  three  nine indicators for each question.  consists   management section and four other sections, including human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption that relate  the principles  the  Globai Compact. The tooi   line with the  Guiding Principles  Business and Human Rights. For  smali company, this tooi acts   measure  the company  performance  ali areas  the  Globai Compact and how weli these issues are managed. For  large organisation, this tooi helps  continuously improve existing policies and systems, engage subsidiaries, suppliers  other stakeholders, and improves internai and externai reporting. For more details refer the website  Globai Compact Self-Assessment Tool14The SROI Network The SROI Network   framework based  sociai generally accepted accounting principles SGAAP that can  used  help manage and understand the sociai, economic and environ - mentai outcomes created   organisation   person.  order  increase the sociai value  impact   task, SROI helps  understanding, managing and communicating the sociai value that  particular task creates   clear and consistent way with customers, beneficiaries and funders.  also helps  managing risks and identifying opportunities and raise finances.  flags potentiai improvements  services, information systems and the way  govern the businesses.  forecasting the value  company expects  create using SROI, one can identify the areas where changes are required and  comparison  performance against forecasts wili help create additionai value. For more details refer the website  SROI15 The LBG modei Companies across the world adopt LBG  measurement modei  order  assess the reai value and impact  their community invest - ment  both, the business and society. This modei helps companies  understand the totai amount  cash, time and -kind invested with -  the community, and enables them  under - stand the geographic spread  their commu - nity support and the kind  themes supported such  education, health and arts and culture. Through this modei, companies can track the manner  which their community programme supports wider business goals such  building employee morale  creating reputationai advantages. Also,  helps  measure the differ - ence their programmes make  the community  large. Under this modei, member companies share data and best practices which  turn help  the benchmarking process. For more details refer the website  LBG16 Nationai Voluntary Guidelines  Sociai, Environmentai and Economic Responsibili - ties  Business These guidelines rolled-out  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs  India, were developed through  extensive consultative process with the objective  providing  distinctive India- centric approach for Indian businesses   - derstand the nuances  responsible business, applicable  large and smali businesses alike. They are easy  comprehend and implement, and encourage businesses  adopt the triple bottom line approach. These guidelines consist  nine principles which relate  ethics and transparency, product life cycle sustainability, employee weli-being, stakeholder engagement, human rights, environmentai stewardship, responsible policy advocacy, inclusive develop - ment and consumer weli-being. Each principle consists  core elements that further articulate the purpose and sense  each principle.  also provides  approach for adopting these guidelines. For more details refer the website  MCA17  http: www. iso. org iso home standards iso26ooo. htm  http: www. oecdguidelines.  get-started creating--csr-policy  http: www. globalcompactselfassessment. org aboutthistooi  http: www. thesroinetwork. org 117-home ali-regions 167-why-should--use-sroi1o  http: www. lbg-online. net about-lbg. aspx  http: www. mca. gov.  Ministry latestnews National_Voluntary_Guidelines_2o11_12jul2o11. pdf Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India  Clause 135, Companies Act,  PwCThe Companies Act, 2o13  India, the concept  CSR  governed  clause 135  the Companies Act, 2o13, which was passed  both Houses  the Parliament, and had received the assent  the President  India   August 2o13. The CSR provisions within the Act  applicable  companies with  annuai turnover  , ooo crore INR and more,   net worth  5oo crore INR and more,   net profit  five crore INR and more. The new rules, which wili  applicable from the The Act lists out  set  activities eligible under CSR. Companies may implement these activities taking into account the locai conditions after seeking board approvai. The indicative activities which can  undertaken   company under CSR have been specified under Schedule VII  the Act. The draft rules   September 2o13 provide  number  clarifications and while these are awaiting public comment before notification, some the highlights are  follows: Surplus arising out  CSR activities wili have   reinvested into CSR initiatives, and this wili  over and above the  figure The company can implement its CSR activities through the following methods: -Directly  its own -Through its own non-profit foundation set-     facilitate this initiative - Through independently registered non-profit organisations that have  record   least three years  similar such related activities -Collaborating  pooling their resources with other companies Only CSR activities undertaken  India wili  taken into consideration Activities meant exclusively for employees and their families wili not qualify  format for the board report  CSR has been provided which includes amongst others, activity-wise, reasons for spends under   the average net profits  the previous three years and  responsibility statement that the CSR policy, implementation and monitoring process   compliance with the CSR objectives,  letter and  spirit. This has   signed  either the CEO,  the    director  the company Governance Clause 135  the Act lays down the fiscai year 2o14- onwards, also require companies  set-  CSR committee consisting  their board members, including  least one independent director. The Act encourages companies  spend  least   their average net profit  the previous three years  CSR activities. The ministry  draft rules, that have been put  for public comment, define net profit  the profit before tax  per the books  accounts, excluding profits arising from branches outside India. Promotion  education Gender equity and women empowermentEradication  extreme hunger and poverty Reducing child mortality and improving maternai healthCombating HIV-AIDS, malaria and other diseases Environmentai sustainability Employment enhancing vocationai skillsContribution  Prime Minister  relief fund and other such state and centrai fundsSociai business projects And such other matters  may  prescribedList  activities under Schedule VII Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 13guidelines   followed  companies while developing their CSR programme. The CSR committee wili  responsible for preparing  detailed plan  CSR activities, including the expenditure, the type  activities, roles and responsibilities  various stakeholders and  monitoring mechanism for such activities. The CSR committee can also ensure that ali the kinds  income accrued  the company  way  CSR activities should  credited back  the community  CSR corpus. Reporting The new Act requires that the board  the company shali, after taking into account the recommendations made  the CSR committee, approve the CSR policy for the company and disclose its contents  their report and also publish the details  the company  officiai website,  any,  such manner  may  prescribed.  the company fails  spend the prescribed amount, the board,  its report, shali specify the reasons. Business responsibility reporting The other reporting requirement mandated  the government  India, including CSR   the SEBI which issued  circular   August 2o12 mandating the top 1oo listed companies  report their ESG initiatives. These are   reported  the form   BRR   part  the annuai report. SEBI has provided  template for filing the BRR. Business responsibility reporting   line with the NVG published  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs  July 2o11. Provisions have also been made  the listing agreement  incorporate the submission  BRR  the relevant companies. The listing agreement also provides the format  the BRR. The BRR requires companies  report their performance  the nine NVG principles. Other listed companies have also been encouraged  SEBI  voluntarily disclose information  their ESG performance  the BRR format. Net worth 5oo Crore INR Turnover 1ooo Crore INR Net profit  Crore INR Form  CSR commiittee Approve the CSR policy Ensure implementation  the activties under CSR Ensure  spend Disclose reasons for not spending the amount  applicable Role  the board CSR committee Three  more directors with  least one independent director Formulate and recommend  CSR policy  the board Recommend activities and the amount  expenditure   incurred Monitor the CSR policy from time  timeRole  the board and the CSR committee  PwC CSR: Planning and strategising Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 15CSR: Planning and strategising The first step towards formalising CSR projects   corporate structure  the constitution   CSR committee  per the specifications  the Companies Act, 2o13, clause 135. Background Clause 135  the Companies Act, 2o13 requires  CSR committee   constituted  the board  directors. They wili  responsible for preparing  detailed plan  the CSR activities including, decisions regarding the expenditure, the type  activities   undertaken, roles and responsibilities  the concerned individuals and  monitoring and reporting mechanism. The CSR committee wili also  required  ensure that ali the income accrued  the company  way  CSR activities  credited back  the CSR corpus. Companies Act, 2o13, Clause 135: CSR committee requirements  CSR committee  the board should  constituted.  should consist   least three directors out  whom  least one   independent director. This composition wili  disclosed  the board  report  per sub-section   section 134. The CSR committee shali: -formulate and recommend  CSR policy  the board, indicating the activities  specified  Schedule VII  the Act -recommend the amount  expenditure   incurred  the activities indicated  the policy -monitor the CSR policy regularlyThis   excellent starting point for any company new  CSR.  case  company already practices CSR, this committee should  set   the earliest  that  can guide the alignment  the company  activities with the requirements  the Act. For effective implementation, the CSR committee must also oversee the systematic development   set  processes and guidelines for CSR  deliver its proposed value  the company, including: one-time processes such  developing the CSR strategy and operationalising the institutionai mechanism repetitive processes such  the annuai CSR policy, due diligence  the implementation partner, project development, project approvai, contracting, budgeting and payments, monitoring, impact measurement and reporting and communication  set  such enabling processes, their inter-relationships and the sequence  which they need   developed have been identified below: Developing  CSR strategy and policy1 5Project approvai Impact measurementDue diligence  the implementation partner Progress monitoring and reportingOperationalising the institutionai mechanism Finalising the arrangenment with the implementing agency Report consolidation and communicationProject development Project implementationCSR processes  PwCWhile developing these processes,  standard set  recommendations exist for ali companies. However,  overview  the required details, the activities required   completed for each  these processes along with some additionai guidance  criticai issues has been provided below: Step one: Developing  CSR strategy and policy Purpose The Companies Act, 2o13 requires every company  put out its CSR policy  the public domain. The guidance provided  the Act and the draft rules  what constitutes  CSR policy are that  should: exclude normai business activities  the company contain  list  the CSR projects  programmes which the company plans  undertake during the implementation year While specifying the annuai report requirements, the draft rules    say  that the company must provide:  brief outline  its CSR policy, including the statement  intent reflecting the ethos  the company, broad areas  CSR interest and  overview  activities   undertaken  web link  the CSR policy including the fuli list  projects, activities and programmes proposed   undertaken  the company Since most  the development requires long-term commitments and their impact often takes  while  accrue,  good CSR practice requires that  company that  serious about its CSR should develop  long-term three  five years vision and strategy which  reviewed annually and the activities and budgets are planned   annuai basis. The latter wili comply with the CSR policy requirements  the Companies Act, 2o13.  avoid confusion regarding terms like policy, strategy, project and programme,  brief explanation has been provided here: CSR strategy refers  what the company expects  achieve  the next three  five years and incorporates the vision, mission and goals   broader levei.  also entails how  plans  achieve these  terms  organisation and approach. CSR policy refers  what the company expects  achieve over the next year. This  aligned with the requirements  the Companies Act, 2o13. Programme refers   sector   issue that the company proposes  address through its CSR. This can, for instance,  education  the giri child  agriculture development. Programmes wili  clearly outlined  the company  CSR strategy. Programme goals wili  achieved through  series  individuai projects and,  project refers   set  interventions, typically   specific geography and addressing  specific stakeholder group, with  definite set  goals, beginning and end and  budget attached  . Each project  turn wili consist   number  activities. Ali  which contribute towards the project goals. Frameworking CSR strategy  effective CSR strategy should articulate: who  wishes  address   the target group where  wishes  work   the geography what sectors  issues  wishes  address  brief understanding  these terms  outlined below: Target group: While development and welfare programmes  India address ali the citizens, the focus   the disadvantaged, marginalised and excluded. Marginalisation  India  primarily  the basis  gender, disability, ethnicity and location. This leads  sociai and physicai exclusion  such groups from ali kinds  development. Engaging the marginalised  India  further complicated due  language and literacy variances, information asymmetry, infrastructure constraints, geographicai challenges and culturai barriers  name  few. The CSR strategy should ideally indicate which  these marginalised groups  proposes  target. Geography: The Companies Act, 2o13 encourages companies  target their CSR interventions  their locai region. While this   obvious choice for companies that are  manufacturing, those  the services sector like banking and telecom with  wider footprint have  concentrated locai region. Companies must decide whether their CSR activities wili  focused   few geographies this can  around their plants   specific backward districts  whether they wili prefer  particularly work anywhere  India. Sector and issue: Sector refers  the development area that the company wishes  focus ; typically, health, education, livelihood, environment, and  . Issue refers   specific aspect   sector for example, primary education  the education sector, skills development  sociai enterprise  the livelihoods sector.   important for  company  determine which sector and issues  wili focus   ensure significant positive impact. Also, the reporting format  draft rules  the Companies Act, 2o13 requires that the company report against the sector making  ali the more important. Process Objective: Developing the CSR strategy and policy. Process owners: The CSR committee Inputs: Guidance from the board Companies Act requirements Corporate business strategy, plan and supply chain Development priorities: both, nationai and wherever the company has business interests Output : the CSR policy document and  indication  sectors and issues, geographies and  profile  the beneficiaries. Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 17Activities Reviewing the past  weli  the current CSR activities and examining their alignment with Schedule VII  the Companies Act, 2o13. Studying the publicly available information  nationai and locai development priorities. Meeting development experts  the government  weli  the NGOs  understand priorities and identifying potentiai areas  intervention. Conducting internai meetings with business leaders  establish the relevance  potentiai CSR activities  the company  core business. Studying the good CSR practices  other companies and their achievements. Developing  CSR strategy that defines for the next three  five years, what the company  CSR activities wili cover  terms : -vision and mission -sectors and issues -geographies: states and districts -beneficiaries -KPIs Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used: The  principles  the  globai compact  guiding principles  business and human rights ILO tri-partite declaration  principles  multinationai enterprises and sociai policy OECD CSR policy tooi Globai compact self assessment Clause 135, Companies Act, 2o13 Decision criteria Grant making Self execution Availability and access  implementation partnerPreferred when there   easy availability and access  the implementation partners  the target geography working  identified sector and issue who can work towards the objective that the company wants them  pursue. Preferred when there   lack  availability and access  the implementation partners  the target geography working  identified sector and issue who can work towards the objective that the company wants them  pursue. Customisation The flexibility  customising  CSR project  suit the company needs  low  medium. The flexibility  customising  CSR project  suit the company needs  high. Cost  implementation Implementation partners are more likely  have lower costs due  their concentrated focus  pursuing development activities, cumulative time spent  the field, cost  human resources deployed and  generai operationai efficiencies. Fixed costs are usually averaged down  the implementation partners usually try  tap multiple sources  funding including government assistance. Overheads are usually higher and economic efficiencies lower  least during inception and growth phases. Higher fixed costs are involved. Controi Low  medium levels  controi over day  day activities, efficiencies and outputs. High levels  controi over day  day activities, efficiencies and outputs. Building expertise Project management know-how  sufficient and - depth domain knowledge  development issues  not expected. Project management know-how  required along with -depth domain knowledge  development issues. Step two: Operationalising the institutionai mechanism Purpose  order for  corporate  gain the greatest leverage and  strategic advantage through the investment  intellectuai and financiai resources, they are required  select their implementation mechanism.  terms  implementation mechanism,  company has severai options, which are permitted under the CSR draft rules: Self-execution through: - -house CSR department - company foundation with execution capabilities Making grants   independent implementation partner which has  track record   least three years. The grants can  made: -direc tly   -house CSR department -through the company  grant-making foundation The factors that  company needs  consider while deciding between -house execution and grant-making whether  the department  the company foundation are  follows: Determining the implementation mechanism: -grant-making  direct implementation -institutionai mechanism: -house department, corporate foundation, partnerships with other NGOs Annually developing  CSR policy  line with the Companies Act, 2o13 rules that defines programmes, geographies and budgets for the following financiai year, aligned with the strategy and ensuring that the  requirement  funds allocation  met Establish methods for monitoring and reporting  PwCIt must  noted that whatever implementation mechanism the company chooses,  must have  basic CSR department  place  support the CSR committee. The role and structure  the department wili  determined  the CSR committee. Selecting legai structure  the company foundation Many companies have set  their own foundations  term used loosely  describe  non-profit entity promoted   company  implement their CSR activities. The advantages that they see  this are:  enables leveraging  funds from other sources   the government schemes and other foundations. Typically, profit organisations are not eligible for such funds. Since the skills, job titles, career paths and cost structures required for the execution  CSR projects are quite different from  company  operations,  separate foundation enables the company  keep these distinct. Under the draft CSR rules,  entity that  company sets   facilitate the implementation  its CSR activities    registered  India   trust, society,   non-profit company under section 818  the Companies Act, 2o13. Non-profit organisations  India are: self-governed   board  trustees   managing committee   governing councii, comprising individuals who generally serve   fiduciary capacity intended  benefit others outside the membership  the organisation prohibited from distributing  monetary residuai  its members  detailed comparative analysis  the three choices  non-profit legai structures  attached  Appendix : Comparative analysis  the three choices for legai entity. Process Objective: Establishing  legai entity and aligning the accounting, tax, finance, administration,  and  systems  deliver the commitments made  the CSR policy. Process owners: The CSR committee Inputs: The CSR strategy Output : creation   separate legai entity   CSR department for CSR activities other institutionai mechanisms  align the accounting, finance, administration,  and  systems with CSR activities Activities: Selecting the organisation modei for the CSR implementation: -house versus outsourced and its legai entity trust, society, Section 819 company, -house department, etc Identifying the implementation modei grant making, direct project execution, etc Formalising the job description, the roles and responsibilities and the reporting relationships for the CSR team whether -house    foundation Integrating budgeting, procurement, payments and reporting for CSR with the existing finance, administration and  systems Analysing accounting systems and chart  accounts and make required changes  record ali expenses appropriately. Establish  method  allocation for the expenses  assets created that are partly for the CSR and partly for business  employee use. ,  The non-profit organization formerly known  Section  companies are now called Section  companies after the introduction  Companies Act, 2o13. Step three: Due diligence  the implementation partner Purpose Due diligence refers  the process  company undertakes  determine the risks  weli  the benefits  working with  potentiai implementation partner. This process has   sufficiently robust  ensure that  company  implementation partners have the reputation, competence and integrity  deliver effective programmes  the ground.  begins  soon  the discussions with the implementation partner suggest that there  prima facie interest  both parties  enter into  partnership.  detailed due-diligence  essentiai for large and long partnerships but may  brief for  relatively smali  opportunistic partnership opportunity. The due diligence process consists  five primary areas for investigation: competence  the implementation partner identity management accountability transparency and financiai capability These have been outlined below: Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used:   tailored  per corporate requirements Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 19Issue Sub-issue Description Competence  the implementation partnerGeography Capacity, expertise and the number  years  experience with the geography under consideration Sector Capacity, expertise and the number  years  experience with the sector under consideration Issue Capacity, expertise and the number  years  experience with the issue under consideration IdentityHistory  existence The number  years the implementation partner has been  existence Legai identity The organisation  registered either   trust,  society  Section  company,  charitable company,  -operative society   unregistered Affiliations The desired levei  affiliation with governments, locai administration and internationai bodies Litigations Any ongoing litigation ManagementComposition  the board Number  members, advisors, term  members and advisors and board renewai procedures Profile  the board members and advisorsBios  the members  the board, their number  years and depth  experience and relevant achievements Diversity  expertise The expertise available  the disposai  the board for development activities Board meetings Regularity  meetings, attendance records and recent topics  discussion Vision, mission and strategyThe management outlines its vision, mission and strategy  its operationai plans  other documents. These plans are communicated  ali relevant employees Experience  the management The management personnei responsible for the day--day activities have the necessary depth  experience and skili set  manage the current and the future growth plans. Conflict  interest Any conflict  interest between the board members, the advisors  the management personnei with the company. There   conflict  interest with the locai governments. Transparency Transparency Awareness  the disclosure and the transparency requirements for ali stakeholders including regulators and funders like periodic reporting, externai audits and ratings Financiai capabilityFinanciai statements Availability  audited financiai statements Adequacy  reserves  formalised and institutionalised system for keeping reserves for times  financiai need Section 12A registration Status  Section 12A registration 8oG registration Status  8oG registration.    registration Status  the registration with the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act 2o1o.  more detailed due-diligence can also undertake the evaluation  the following five issues: organisation structure operations, systems and processes human resource financiai capability risk management CII and Credibility Alliance  guidelines for identifying NGO partners are mentioned  Appendix . Process Objective: Selecting the implementation partner. Process owners: The CSR department  Company Foundation Inputs: the CSR strategy and policy discussions with communities, board, staff, other funders, locai government officials, locai leaders  influencers, auditors studying the books  accounts and the auditor  report Output :  due diligence report Activities: Establishing  due diligence criteria  evaluate the implementation  concept development agency including its incorporation, permits and licenses, systems, processes, public image, management, team deployment, track record, financiai soundness, competence levei, presence  desired geography, compatibility with company CSR policy and any conflicts  interest. Establishing  due diligence criteria for evaluation and empanelment  private funders for partnership and joint projects. Evaluating the partnership opportunities for its risks and benefits. Step four: Project development Purpose The CSR strategy   company wili  implemented through  series  projects which wili have definite beginnings, ends, expected outputs and outcomes  weli  budgets associated with . These projects may    short duration  few months  multi-year.  company may choose  implement projects through its -house teams   partnership with other agencies   combination  both. Whatever path  takes,   important for the project   developed clearly with distinct baselines, defined activities, monitorable targets and budgets.  the case  multi-year projects,   important  include  provision  undertake annuai reviews which can form the basis  revise the project. Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used:   tailored  per corporate requirements.  PwCProcess Objective: Developing  feasible project proposai. Process owners: The implementation agency the CSR department, company foundation  the NGO partner Inputs: the CSR policy institutionai mechanisms information from the government sources, previous studies done  the area, etc information  programs targeting similar geographies and beneficiary groups  strategies monitoring impact measurement reports from any earlier projects Output :  project proposai that details:  project context including the roles  other development actors key needs  the target beneficiaries project goals, KPIs, baselines and expected end lines project milestones for progress monitoring purposes activities and timelines  achieve the stated project goals budgets along with the basis for estimation risks and mitigation strategies progress reporting: content, frequency Activities: Developing  framework  identify key stakeholder groups including the locai community, the locai government  bodies, academia and research institutions, investors, etc. Conducting  needs assessment  required  assess development priorities. The methodology for this can  participatory processes, surveys   combination  the two. Studying and adopting good practices  address similar challenges based  prior experiences  lessons available from other practitioners and develop the approach. Detailing the project: the objectives, the beneficiaries and the impact  the beneficiaries, the assumptions, the expected outputs and outcomes, detailed activities, potentiai  influence public policy and practice. Identifying the indicators  success with the means  verification and establish the baseline for each. This can  commissioned   separate study  can even  included  the needs assessment stage. Estimating the budget and how  wili  funded specifying the community contributions, leveraging  the government schemes and contributions from the other donors. Indicating the monitoring and evaluation methodologies for impact measurement. Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used: Sociai return  investments SROI, the SROI network Globai impact investing network GIIN ISO 26ooo: sociai responsibility Step five: Project approvai Purpose Every project, whether developed  the -house team   externai agency, must  formally examined and approved. This   ensure that each project   line with the CSR strategy and policy, the monitoring indicators are clearly defined and relevant and there   adequate budget available. Projects that   for longer durations  demand  larger amount  resources must  scrutinised more carefully than the others. The CSR committee  ultimately the one responsible for every project.  can, however, choose  delegate authority   project approvai committee consisting  company staff and outside experts with clearly defined roles and responsibilities. Process Objective: Approve the project based  the CSR policy objectives, principles and guidelines. Process owners: The CSR committee  the delegated project approvai committee. Inputs:  project proposai  due diligence report Output :  approved project proposai including  monitoring process and reporting and responsibility for this. Activities: Determining the delegation  power for the project approvai. Establishing  evaluation framework for the appraisai  the project concepts and implementing agencies that ensure complete alignment with the CSR policy. Establishing tests for the theory  change; whether the concept wili  able  deliver the intended results. Establishing tests for the value for money, economy, effectiveness and efficiency. Reviewing risks and mitigation measures. Identifying resource availability and any specific organisationai requirements and constraints. Laying down organisationai supervision and oversight requirements. Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used:   tailored  per corporate requirements. Step six: Finalising the arrangement with the implementing agency Purpose While working with  externai agency,   very important  enter into  formai arrangement which  referred  here   Memorandum  Understanding  MoU.  defines the roles, responsibilities, deliverables, commitments and consequences  case  any breach. This  essentially  formai acknowledgement that ali the partners have voluntarily consented  work together  achieve  agreed outcome that requires each one  play their respective roles. The term MoU  used more generically here  refer  the arrangements between partners which can range from  formai, legally enforceable contract  the one hand   simple exchange  written documents Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 21on the other. However, what  important for the company  keep  mind  that   entering into  arrangement with  partner, not  supplier and there   greater sense  mutuality  this relationship.  may also  noted that the MoU  relevant only  the project  being implemented   legai entity other than the company  own CSR department.  must also  executed  the project  being implemented  the company foundation     separate legai entity. Disbursement scheduling For  project  deliver the desired results,  should have sufficient funds  carry out the planned activities.  the same time, having excess funds  the bank account  not prudent financiai management. Thus, the scheduling  disbursements  important both for the company  plan its cash flows from the CSR budget and the implementing agency and hence needs   detailed  the MOU.  good practice suggests that the scheduling  disbursements should  linked with the activities planned for the each period; this can   quarter, six months   year depending upon the administrative convenience and budget sizes. Thus, the project budget needs   broken  accordingly and the funds required for the subsequent period should  made available  advance. Actuai disbursements have  then  linked  the progress  the ground. The MoU should also specify the conditions that the implementing agency should fulfii and the documentation  should provide  support   disbursement request. Typically, these include the status : activities originally planned  the period changes and the reasons thereof planned and required funds for the period utilised funds and bank balances net funds required Process Objective: Agree upon and sign the MoU with the partner. Process owners: The CSR department  company foundation Inputs:  approved project proposai  due diligence report Output : MoU with the implementing agency including the disbursement schedule. Activities: Developing template MoUs based  the context. Specify the outputs and outcomes, the approach and methodology, the KPIs, key parameters   monitored and reported, the mode  communication, contract management team, scope  change  management procedures, dispute  conflict resolution mechanisms, inspection and audit requirements, contract closeout requirements, time- lines, milestones and deliverables, budgets, process  invoicing and release  payments, etc Establishing  process for negotiation  the MoU with the implementing agency. Negotiating, agreeing upon and signing the MoUTo ensure objectivity,   criticai that the monitoring  done  someone other than the people directly engaged  the project implementation.  cases where the implementation  done   partner  corporate foundation, this role can either  outsourced  played  the company  CSR department.  case the CSR department itself  implementing  project, then monitoring should either  outsourced   third party  the department structure should include  independent monitoring celi. This decision should  taken  the CSR committee. Process Objective: Monitoring progress, distilling lessons and forming the basis for reporting. Process owners: The CSR committee Inputs: The approved project proposai Previous monitoring reports Output : Determining mid-course corrections Recommendations for future project designs Project monitoring reports  the CSR committee Activities: Determining the monitoring schedule for each project based  the approved project proposai. Obtaining ali relevant progress reports from the project, studying them and making  note  the gaps. Holding discussions with the implementation team  reasons for slippages  any and agreeing   corrective action. This may  done through  field visit  remotely, based  what has been agreed  the MoU. Holding discussions with the implementation team regarding what lessons are emerging and how they can  applied within the project  weli  outsi . Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used:   tailored  per corporate requirements. Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used:   tailored  per corporate requirements. Step seven: Progress monitoring and reporting Purpose Routine progress monitoring serves the following three important purposes:  highlights any slippages and helps  determine  corrective action that must  taken  need .  provides  excellent opportunity for learning: what worked and what did not. This can then  immediately applied  other projects. This   essentiai part  the directors report  per the CSR clause  the Companies Act, 2o13  PwCStep eight: Impact measurement Purpose Impacts  the development projects typically take  while  manifest. For instance,  giri child education programme can show  increased enrolment and retention  girls and   monthly basis, but further impacts such  improved learning levels wili take  least  year. , impact measurement studies have different objectives from project monitoring and typically have   undertaken after providing sufficient time for them  manifest. Impact measurement  often quite specialised and needs   undertaken   independent team with specific skills depending upon project design. For instance,   giri child education programme has  strong component for mobilising communities, then the members  the evaluation team must not only understand education but also have knowledge  gender and the community  order  assess the impact. There are severai tools and frameworks for measuring impact. Each has its pros and cons depending upon the nature  interventions, time and budgets available for the study and the availability  people. Thus, selecting the impact measurement methodology  important. Thus, impact studies have   carefully planned  terms  team composition, timing and methodology. The process must  driven  the CSR committee which can delegate the day--day management  the process   appropriate structure within the company. Process Objective: Measuring the outcome and impact  the projects. Process owners: The CSR committee Inputs: resource planning the project MoU Output : impact measurement report recommendations for the future project designsActivities: Identifying methods for conducting the impact assessment and outcome measurement suited  the context and the size  the project and budgets available. Identifying the skills set required for the impact measurement team and accordingly identifying, selecting and appointing the team. Assisting the team  prepare the methodology for selecting  sample, conducting surveys, focus group discussions collecting information  the identified indicators. Making the provisions for the site visits  the team, involvement  the agency involved during the baseline and needs assessment. Undertaking the impact measurement exercise and preparing the report. Identifying the lessons for future interventions. Act, 2o13. The report has  conform  the requirements  CSR rules under the Companies Act, 2o13  terms  form and content  non-compliance attracts penalties. This report wili also form  key input into the company  SEBI Business Responsibility Report and sustainability report. The CSR committee may choose   beyond the requirements  the Companies Act, 2o13 and issue  stand- alone CSR report. Process Objective: Reporting the CSR   individuai project levei, consolidated   programme levei and aligned with the requirements under the Companies Act, 2o13 and the CSR committee. Process owners: The CSR department Inputs: CSR strategy and policy the project MoU monitoring reports from individuai projects Output : consolidated CSR reports externai stakeholder communication Activities: Identifying the recipient  the report: the board  directors, investors, government agencies, beneficiaries, etc. Selecting the appropriate reporting framework that  aligned with the requirements  the Companies Act, 2o13 and the globai best practices. Consolidating project reports into programme reports and  overali CSR report. The reporting format wili form  part  the CSR rules being drafted  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs. Step nine: Report consolidation and communication Purpose Reporting and communication closes the loop between intent and achievement and  hence  cruciai element  the CSR process.  the context  the Companies Act, 2o13 this  also  mandatory requirement   provides cruciai inputs  preparing the directors report. Project-levei reporting forms the base and hence getting  right  criticai. Project reports have   consolidated  programme related reports, aligned with the CSR policy stated  the company   requirement under the Companies Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used: London Benchmarking Group LBG modei Sociai return  investments SROI, The SROI network Globai impact investing network GIIN Accountability -:  1ooo, Institute  Sociai and Ethicai Accountability ISO 26ooo: sociai responsibility Public consultation guidelines  Government  India, etc Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used: SEBI directive  ESG disclosure  applicable, RBI guidelines  CSR, sustainable development and non- financiai reporting  applicable Clause 135, Companies Act, 2o13  applicable Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India  CSR and SMEs  PwCCSR and SMEs What are SMEs? Smali and medium enterprises SMEs significantly contribute towards India  economic growth. These serve independently and also  ancillary  larger units and help generate employment and industrialise the rurai and backward regions  India. They employ nearly   India  workforce and contribute around   India  manufacturing output2o. What  they ? The business activities  SMEs are performed  proximity  the locals. This enables them   aware  community needs, manage expectations and develop CSR programmes appropriately. Now that the CSR clause  the Companies Act, 2o13 covers companies that have  net profit  five crore INR and above,   expected that while micro-enterprises wili not qualify, many smali and medium enterprises SMEs wili. SMEs are being treated separately  this handbook because  their distinct features. The CSR activities  these enterprises are driven  the personai interests  promoters who hold  significant financiai stake  the business. They tend    clusters and engaged  similar business activities. While the quantum  revenue available for CSR with individuai SMEs  expected   smali, ali eligible companies   specific geographicai cluster, who single handed  weli  collectively impact the same community, can pooi their resources  create  sizeable CSR fund. How can SMEs contribute  CSR initiatives? This section analyses the option  undertaking collaborative CSR activities  SMEs. This collaboration can also  used  other companies  maximise the impact  their CSR initiatives while reducing the operationai costs for fund management. Why collaborate for CSR initiatives? CSR  for ali companies. SMEs  India have participated  CSR activities but these efforts have not been optimally delivered.  One possible reason can  the fact that CSR activities depend  the profits   SME and any fluctuations  profits can adversely affect their capability  continue their contribution for CSR. Another reason can  the limited human resources available  SMEs which may also result  the lack   professionai approach. SMEs tend  focus  short-term activities that involve lesser operationai costs.  survey conducted  UNIDO  2oo8  five SME clusters  India, found that     the SMEs  these clusters, preferred charity donations rather than long-term programmes for locai communities. With the introduction  the new Companies Act, 2o13, the SME  approach  CSR has   modified while keeping operationai costs low. One viable alternative   pooi resources with other SMEs  the cluster and create joint CSR programmes managed   single entity. This collaboration can  formed within the units   cluster  they interact with the same communities and have already established associations that cater  the business needs  the units. Collaboration has the following advantages: Reduces operationai cost: Individuai CSR efforts   company consist  establishing  CSR department, assessing the needs  locai communities, undertaking programmes directly  through  NGO and conducting regular impact assessment studies.  common organisation catering   number  companies wili carry out these activities collectively and thus reduce the operationai cost  management. Undertake long-term projects:  major hindrance  developing long- term projects  the uncertainty  the CSR budget. This  dependent  the financiai performance  the company.  fluctuating performance implies that the CSR budget allocations can  unreliable and can jeopardise  programme initiated earlier. Pooling resources addresses this issue   . http: articles. economictimes. indiatimes. com 2o13-- news 39834857_1_smes-workforce-smali-and-medium-enterprises . http: www. business-standard. com article sme smes--get-professionai-help--corporate-sociai-responsibility-1o8o6o5o1o9o_1. htmi Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 25certain extent  the other partners can increase their share  case there  variance  allocation from  certain segment  the cluster. The long- term programmes also have greater impact than the short-term projects. Communities are increasingly realising the importance  the support offered  these programmes  making their lives better. Long-term programmes also lead  better community relations and this ensures avoiding situations  community unrest that hamper business activities. Learning from experiences:  common entity with multiple participants from the cluster wili help assess community needs, undertake relevant programmes based  past experiences and address  greater number  community issues. Collaboration among the SMEs   cluster also provides  opportunity  manage sociai and environmentai issues and respond better  the pressure from buyers, who are trying  establish ethicai supply chains and gain appreciation from the internationai community. Collaborations can also  forged amongst larger companies, possibly through industry associations,  enable them  address common issues plaguing  geographicai region   industry. The process for  SME The first step involved  collaborating   create  alliance  interested SMEs. This may  initiated  the cluster association  case  large-scale participation from the cluster. Alternatively,  can  initiated   individuai SME  case there are only  few units interested  undertaking CSR activities  collaboration. Involvement  the cluster association wili ensure that the locai priorities are given due consideration while developing CSR programmes.  case  sufficient number  SMEs   cluster  not wish  participate  are not required under the Companies Act, 2o13  spend  CSR activities, the boundary may  extended  other clusters, though this increases complexity. The alliance should then form  steering committee with the representatives from each SME    democratically decide  issues. The steering committee should study the institutionai method  implementation, . . undertaking activities through  established trust, society,  Section  company  forming  new entity  directly managing the funds. The steps other than the guidelines mentioned  the steering committee  the section CSR: Planning and strategising  this handbook, include the following: Deciding the thematic areas from Schedule VII  the Companies Act, 2o13, beneficiary groups and geographies that  wili target based  the inputs from participants. Developing internai processes  track individuai contribution  members and their utilisation  CSR activities, finalising long-term projects based  projected contributions  members and addressing non-payment  members. The CSR policy  individuai SMEs should  designed  allow for flexibility  case   collaborative effort  undertake CSR. This implies that the policy, over and above the guidelines mentioned  the section Step one: Develop CSR strategy and policy, should allow the following: Flexibility  selecting thematic areas from Schedule VII  Companies Act, 2o13, beneficiary groups and geographies  per the priorities  the entire association. Support  initiate CSR programmes  the extent possible,  case the association  abandoned. The next steps involved  the due diligence  implementation  the concept development partner are: Project development Operationalising institutionai mechanism Contracting Budgeting and payments Monitoring Impact measurement Reporting and communication are  described  section CSR: Planning and strategising  cases where the totai CSR funds are insufficient  cover the cost  collaboration, SMEs can also contribute  the Prime Minister  Nationai Relief Fund  any other fund set   the centrai government  the state governments  per activity   the Schedule VII  the Companies Act, 2o13.  PwCAppendix  Comparative analysis  the three choices for legai entity Differentiai factors Trust Society Section  company22 earlier known  Section  company Basic document Trust deed which contains objects  the trust bye-law Memorandum  association Articles  association with rules and regulationsMemorandum  association Articles  association Formation Simple Simple Slightly difficult Jurisdiction Deputy registrar  charity commissionerRegistrar  Societies Registrar  Companies Legislation statute Relevant state trust act Societies Registration Act 186o Companies Act 2o13 Objectives Sociai benefits and charitable Literary, charitable, scientific and resource orientedNonprofit activities -amendment  modification  objectsAlteration can  undertaken only  the founder  settlerEasy, legai procedures Complicated, legai procedures Required members Minimum , maximum  limit Minimum , maximum  limit Minimum , maximum  limit Registration  trust with the registrar  society with society registrar  per Companies Act under Section  earlier Section  Stamp duty   trust property value wili  executed  non judiciai stamp paper with the registrarNo stamp paper required for memorandum  association, and rules and regulationsNo stamp paper required for memorandum and articles  association Name Easy  choose Easy  choose Prior approvai required from Registrar  Companies Management board Trustees Governing body Board  directors and management committee Succession  managementBy election  election  appointment Meetings  provisions Annuai meeting  per law, governing body meeting  per the rules  society, Quite extensive  per the provision  Company Law Statutory regulations Nominai Limited Maturable and exhaustive Membership transfer Not possible Not possible Free  controi  per desire Member admission Not applicable Governing body controi Generai body  board controi through issue  capitai Payment  members  notified  trust deed Not restricted  approved  company and state  The non-profit organizsation formerly known  Section  companies are now called Section  companies after the introduction  Companies Act, 2o13. Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 27Appendix  Designing  volunteering programme  part  their corporate sociai responsibility efforts, companies encourage their employees  volunteer for  cause usually pre-selected  corporate human resources  foundations during work hours under formalised employee volunteering programmes EVPs. These EVPs involve substantiai opportunity cost for employers and therefore must  carefully planned and executed. Who   corporate volunteer?  corporate volunteer   employee who actively takes   task, responsibility,  project  his  her own accord without needing   assigned  told     part  his  her daily job duties. Corporate volunteering  generally considered  altruistic activity and  intended  promote larger sociai  environmentai good  improve the quality  life   target beneficiary   community. Most often, there are  financiai gains for the work  service provided  such volunteers. However, sometimes this volunteering involves incentives such  personality  profile development, skili development, socialisation, and fun.  certain areas  volunteering work such  health services, education  emergency rescue volunteers receive training before they can contribute. However, most volunteers serve   need basis without any prior educationai  work experience  related background. Severai design parameters and related activities need  considered while developing  EVP: Design parameter Activities Organisation goals: Laying out the overali objective   company from its EVP. Identify volunteering goals  your organisation. Employee volunteering mechanism: Developing the institutionai framework under which employee volunteerism can  channelled for  larger good. Establish institutionai ownership  volunteering programme. Establish volunteer codes  practice. Establish volunteering governing principles. Design volunteer programmes and projects. Draft volunteering agreement including the statement  volunteer rights and responsibilities. Lay out roles and responsibilities  coordinators for the EVP. Ensure continuity  volunteer work. Recruitment and enrolment: Attracting, screening and selecting qualified individuals for  specific volunteer role. Lay out the volunteer recruitment and enrolment process. Create volunteer roles and writing position descriptions. Segment and target volunteers. Write volunteer advertisements. Process enquiries and applications. Undertake selection and interview process. Inducting and training: Welcoming new volunteers  the EVP and preparing them for their role.  provides  introduction  the working environment where they wili volunteer and available resources. The process wili cover volunteer rights, the terms and conditions  volunteering, legai and compliance requirements and health and safety guidance.  also covers any necessary training needs  the volunteers  perform their duties. Design and deliver induction and orientation programmes. Train volunteers. Mentoring and supervising:  hoc assistance   more experienced and knowledgeable person  help facilitate  less experienced and knowledgeable person  reach his  her individuai goals and objectives  the volunteering programme. Supervision involves management  the individuai  performance against  prescribed objective   routine basis and providing actionable feedback. Design and deliver mentoring programme. Assign, supervise and establish key performance indicators for volunteer work. Provide performance feedback  volunteers. Keep volunteers motivated. Manage disputes and grievances. Rewarding and recognising: Rewards and recognition are given when  organisation wants  motivate volunteers  achieving  goai  organisationai objective. Rewards and recognition are designed  distinguish and motivate employees. This  important  the case  volunteering where employees  not have any financiai incentives. Make volunteering attractive. Develop awards and recognition framework. Encouraging diversity: Encouraging employees with unique experiences and backgrounds  work together  increase productivity, effectiveness and responsiveness  changing conditions  enhance their contribution and benefit from the volunteering exercise. Communicate the value  diversity. Develop programmes  encourage diversity. Recruit and enroli volunteers from diverse backgrounds.  PwCA community can  defined   homogenous group  individuals bound together geographically, politically, culturally   certain values, principles  shared characteristics. For the purposes  this discussion,  define community  the collection  stakeholders who reside  the locai vicinity  company operations and who rely   are impacted  its shared resources. Community engagement  defined   process  which the needs, priorities and values  various individuals not directly associated with  dependent   given company and that  other externai organisations   community are incorporated into corporate decision- making and management activities. Appendix  Community engagement Steps for robust community engagement Key activities Assess the locai context: Understanding the characteristics and complexities  the locai landscape and use this information for strategic planning  community engagement. Undertake socioeconomic assessment. Map locai communities and networks. Map key institutions engaged with locai communities. Identify potentiai partners. Involve communities: Support and facilitation  the process  community-driven planning  enable communities  define their own goals, identify opportunities and assets they plan  utilise  share, and prioritise areas  potentiai engagement with the company and other locai development actors. Identify objectives  community engagement and its guiding principles. Enable community planning, visioning and prioritisation through participatory methods. Manage community expectations and perceptions. Identify and categorise key stakeholders: Creation   list  the individuals, groups, and institutions that could affect   affected  any community engagement project. This step identi - fies and generates knowledge about individuals and locai organisations  order  understand their behaviours, intentions, inter-relations and interests. Identify and segment various target groups. Undertake needs assessment. Set operationai parameters: Setting  the scope and target  such  engagement  line with the activities  company wili support. Develop  baseline. Identify the company and any shared assets available. Identify investment areas and budgets. Develop key performance indicators. Project implementation: Identifying the best way  deliver  project  view  severai variables, such  the objectives  community engagement, project timeframe, budget and locai operating context. Select implementation modei: -house  foundation, implementation partner, multi- stakeholder partnership, any other hybrid modei. Engage and influence key opinion leaders  locai community. Develop community forums. Invest  capacity building  community. -design detailed development projects with community participation. Operationalise development projects and manage project cycle. Measure and communicate results: Monitoring and evaluation  use the information collected  future planning and communicating these results  ali stakeholders including the com - munity, the company and other development partners. Document results  key performance indicators. Calculate sociai return  investments. Develop communications strategy  periodically disseminate information  community and other stakeholders. Tools, technicai guidance and standards   used: Participatory rurai appraisai Focus group discussions Door--door surveys Handbook  Corporate Sociai Responsibility  India 29Appendix  CII and Credibility Alliance  guidelines for identifying NGO partners . Identity: The NGO should exist and  registered under the appropriate law under which   governed.  should comply with the provisions  the Act and other relevant laws. The organisation has been functioning for  minimum  one year from the date  registration. The physicai address given  the organisation  verifiable. The organisation  registered   trust  society  Section  company. Registration certificates and documents issued  the appropriate authority are available upon request. . Vision, aims, objectives, achievements: The vision, purpose and aims  the NGO should  explicitly stated and  reflected  the activities being undertaken.  vision, purpose  mission, which drives the organisation,  articulated beyond the registration documents  the form  activities and projects, etc. The organisation has  defined aim and  set  objectives. The organisation  able  show performance through defined indicators against stated objectives. . Governance: There must   clear commitment towards good governance for the NGO  enhance its effectiveness, serve ali stakeholders, meet the needs  society and  ensure its accountability towards society  accordance with its charter  objects and purposes. The organisation has  governing board. The organisation follows  consultative and democratic decision-making process. There  disclosure  the details  board members viz, name, age, gender, position and occupation. Ali family affiliations should  indicated. The board has  least two meetings  year suitably spaced with quorum stipulated  its own articles  association, reviewing the functioning  the NGO, evaluating the projects undertaken  them and discussing the way forward. The organisation  not for profit and its resources are deployed only for accomplishing the objectives for which  has been formed. The organisation has attained recognition under Section 12A  the Income Tax Act. 8oG  the Income Tax Act  preferable. Minutes  board meetings are documented and circulated. The board approves programmes, budgets, annuai activity reports and audited financiai statements. The board ensures the organisation  compliance with applicable laws and statutory regulations. Ali pending legai disputes are declared. . Operations: Operations refer  the capacity  conduct programmes and administrative activities efficiently and effectively  the public interest. The NGO should have norms  respect  the nature  the programme  undertakes, the nature and style  its management; and the roles and responsibilities  its human resources including personnei and volunteers. The activities are  line with the vision, aim and objectives  the organisation. The organisation periodically reviews the progress  programmes. The accounts  the organisation are regularly maintained and those with  annuai income above , ooo INR are audited  the chartered accountant. The roles and responsibilities are defined for ali personnei and volunteers. Ali personnei are issued letters  contract and appointment.  appropriate  policy   place. . Accountability and transparency: Accountability and transparency are key requirements  good governance and necessary for building trust among stakeholders. This works   testimony  the fact that the organisation has been working efficiently and effectively.  financiai management policy has been developed and  adhered . Signed audited statements are prepared annually and available  request: balance sheet, income and expenditure statement, receipts and payments account, schedules  these, notes  accounts and the statutory auditor  report. Statement  accounts indicating whether constructed   cash  accruai basis. There are  serious adverse notes  the veracity  the functioning  the organisation. There are  materiai transactions involving conflict  interest between  board  staff member and  adverse comment and observation relating  operationai issues  financiai dealing  the record  public authority. The organisation  annuai report  distributed and communicated  stakeholders and others and  made available upon request every year, within eight months  the end  the organisation  financiai year. The annuai report contains  description  the main activities,  review  the progress and results achieved  the year and information  board member names, positions, remuneration  reimbursement  weli  brief financiai details. The NGO shali disclose their funding details . . the sources  funds, annuai revenue   and project expenditure. The organisation shali produce timely reports  the use and management  funds which should  made available  request. Dovetailing with government schemes wili  preferred. The NGO should give out accurate information regarding their projects . . survey reports, target population, location, sustainability  the projects, their success ratio, etc  request. The organisation should  ready  submit  affidavit  the authorised signatory attesting  the authenticity  the information given. Appendix  Illustrative list  NGOs and platforms for information  NGOs prepared  CII . GiveIndia http: www. giveindia. org: GiveIndia   donation platform that allows companies  support  cause  choice from about 2oo NGOs that have been scrutinised for transparency and credibility. . Voluntary Action Network India http: www. vaniindia. org: Voluntary Action Network India works towards building  society where voluntarism and voluntary organisations play  dominant role  sociai cohesion, economic empowerment and nation-building. . Charities Aid Foundation http: www. cafindia. org: CAF India provides strategic and management support  corporates, individuals and PSUs  order  ensure greater impact  their philanthropic and CSR investments. . Oxfam India http: www. oxfamindia. org: The Oxfams are rights-based organisations that fight poverty and injustice  linking grassroots programming through partner NGOs  locai, nationai and globai advocacy and policy-making. . Confederation  Voluntary Associations covanetwork. org: COVA works  the areas  communai harmony, peace and sociai justice through sensitisation  ali sections  society and empowerment  the marginalised and the poor. . Partners  Change http: www. picindia. org: PiC focusses  building sustainable partnerships between the corporate sector and sociai development initiatives  India. PiC  goai has been  become  organisation that  recognised both  companies  weli  civii society   reliable facilitator for building partnerships for sociai development. . Credibility Alliance http: credibilityalliance. org: Credibility Alliance  mission   build the credibility  the voluntary sector through the creation and promotion  the norms  good governance and public disclosure. . Samhita http: samhita. org: Samhita provides  platform for NGOs  showcase their work and attract donation. . Indian Confederation  NGOs http: www. icongo. : iCONGO   collective  various credible, transparent and accountable NGO members registered  promoting members and privilege members. . GuideStar India http: www. guidestarindia. org: GuideStar India  India  leading provider  NGO information. Their portai provides  fully searchable database  reliable and comparable information  over , 5oo NGOs. About CII The Confederation  Indian Industry CII works  create and sustain  environment conducive  the growth  industry  India, partnering industry and government alike through advisory and consultative processes. CII   non-government, not-for-profit, industry-led and industry-managed organisation, playing  proactive role  India  development process. Founded over 117 years ago,   India  premier business association, with  direct membership  over 81oo organisations from the private  weli  public sectors, including SMEs and MNCs, and  indirect membership  over , ooo companies from around 4oo nationai and regionai sectorai associations. CII catalyses change  working closely with government  policy issues, enhancing efficiency, competitiveness and expanding business opportunities for industry through  range  specialised services and globai linkages.  also provides  platform for sectorai consensus building and networking. Emphasis  laid  projecting  positive image  business, assisting industry  identify and execute corporate citizenship programmes. Partnerships with over 12o NGOs across the country carry forward our initiatives  integrated and inclusive development, which include health, education, livelihood, diversity management, skili development and water,  name  few. CII has envisaged  nationai movement for mainstreaming CSR for sustained inclusiveness  part  its sociai development agenda. The CII Nationai Committee  Corporate Sociai Responsibility and Community Development was constituted  2oo1  make CSR  actionable business agenda. The committee develops CSR guidelines and promotes the sharing  CSR experiences and best practices. CII also organises  annuai CSR summit  enable stakeholders  review and strengthen the CSR movement. CII development initiatives ensure the continuity  these programmes, particularly with respect  women empowerment, industry-NGO partnership, and persons with disabilities. With  offices, including nine Centres  Excellence,  India, and  overseas offices  Australia, China, Egypt, France, Singapore, , and USA,  weli  institutionai partnerships with 224 counterpart organizations   countries, CII serves   reference point for Indian industry and the internationai business community. Confederation  Indian Industry 249-, Sector  Udyog Vihar, Phase , Gurgaon-122o15, Haryana, India Telephone:  124 4o14o6o- Fax:  124 4o14o8o Emaii: jawahar.  cii.  PwC India Building , Tower , DLF Cyber City Gurgaon-122oo2, Haryana, India Telephone:  124 33o 6ooo Fax:  124 33o 6999 Emaii: prashant. vikram. singh . pwc. com sachin. shukla . pwc. comAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  123 - Nov 2o13 CSRHandbook. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India