Title: pwc_changing-dynamics-final-copy-feb-4-2013
Date Published: 2013-02-04 12:40:08+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_changing-dynamics-final-copy-feb-4-2013.pdf
Word Count: 11551
Sentence Count: 881
Average Sentence Length: 20.38

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
india: 141
defence: 137
indian: 119
aerospace: 113
sector: 113
industry: 98
aircraft: 90
tax: 85
companies: 71
market: 70
aviation: 65
wili: 65
services: 63
government: 59
mro: 59
domestic: 57
policy: 57
globai: 57
private: 56
usd: 48

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Indian aviation: Spreading its wings www. pwc.  Aero India, February 2o13 Foreword  Opportunities and challenges  Tax and regulatory framework p22 Building  domestic aerospace industriai base p28 PwC2The year 2o12 marked  decade  fuli-fledged entry  the private sector  defence production with 1oo equity and  foreign direct investment. The decade also witnessed India emerge  one  the most attractive defence markets and  even more lucrative aerospace market  the world with  steady increase  the Ministry  Defence  budget for modernisation  the armed forces. Besides, the size  the defence market  India, the government  defence budget, the  offset clause, the Defence Production Policy espousing indigenisation and self-reliance these avenues seem promising for the private defence industry  weli. However, the lack  levei playing field for the private sector vis-- vis the DPSUs and the foreign originai equipment manufacturers OEMs continue    dampener  the enthusiasm and efforts  the private sector   able  contribute meaningfully  the Indian growth story. India  this juncture  uniquely equipped  create  vibrant defence manufacturing base  the country with the right utilisation  its budget and modernisation spree. Yet  are losing the battle even before  has started. The Defence Offset Policy announced last year lists fostering development  internationally competitive enterprises, augmenting capacity for research, design and development related  defence products and services and encouraging development  synergistic sectors such  civii aerospace and internai security. FICCI has welcomed the intent  these objectives creating  manufacturing base and augmenting   related  defence products and services. However,  wili  desirable  have  offset policy which has creating capability and value addition  its corner-stones. One cannot over emphasise the importance  self-reliance  defence production  the strategic interest  the nation. Here   also coupled with the fact that the defence and aerospace industry can act   force multiplier for the economy given India  capability  frugai engineering together with jobs and export opportunities like  has happened  the auto and  sector. Also, since defence   tiered industry, the MSME sector can get  huge impetus through  strong defence industry set . This wili also build nationai defence capability followed with integration  the Indian industry  the globai supply chain  spares and sub-systems followed  platform integration.  due course, India can emerge   outsourcing hub for globai defence players. This sums  our vision for the defence and aerospace manufacturing  India, which the FICCI Defence Committee has been taking forward with the Ministry  Defence  would like  thank our knowledge partners - PwC for their support and hard work  making this report.   Didar SinghSecretary Generai FICCIForeword Spreading its wings Indian aviation3In the last decade, India initiated  modernisation and acquisition programme for its defence forces.  utilise the huge acquisition budget and  build  domestic industriai base, the government made radicai policy changes, allowing private and domestic investment  the defence sector and moving from depending upon  single country for the supply  equipment  globai bidding. The offset policy was launched  2oo5  encourage investments  the nascent domestic industry. Based  the learning and feedback from domestic and foreign participants, the Defence Procurement Policy DPP and offset policies have been revised severai times. These changes reflect the government  commitment  put  place  transparent and proactive policy regime. Over the last  years,  number  big-ticket acquisitions have taken place and offset proposals exceeding  billion USD have been approved.  assess the growth and development that have taken place  the past four years since our first such study, PwC conducted  review  the sector.  deai with limited company data available  the public domain,  relied  interviews and our insights derived from advising  large number  clients and anecdotai evidence. Defence and aerospace companies face  new intensity   result  the economic slowdown and consequent defence spending cuts, particularly  the  and Europe where governments have started cutting, -profiling and reducing programmes and platforms. Though the   stili the largest military spender, the Asia-Pacific region with China, Japan and India, leads the race  arms purchase, with  major chunk  these budgets going into the military aviation sector. The Indian Air Force IAF has inducted  wide range  new platforms and equipment with many more purchases  the pipeline. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited HAL has dominated the sector and along with other defence public sector undertakings DPSUs,  has supported the private sector  enhancing their capabilities through outsourcing and vendor development. The industry  stili   nascent stage  evolution. However, the good news  that the results  the liberalisation and proactive policies  the last decade, for example through the make programme and the defence offset policy, are beginning  bear fruit  severai large domestic private sector groups such  Tata and   and  large number  smaller companies have entered this sector. The defence offset policy  expected  catalyse this process. Most  the leading globai OEMs from the  and Europe have also established their presence  India including through joint ventures with Indian companies. Foreword PwC4Regulatory regime The government has tried  encourage private and foreign investment  both civii and military aviation through severai proactive policies. Yet there  much   done. The  cap  foreign direct investment FDI  defence needs   reviewed  this policy has failed  attract foreign investment. The country has received  paltry  million USD  the  years since FDI has been allowed  the defence sector  compared  over 18o billion USD  the entire economy. There   clear definition  defence equipment delaying receiving licences for manufacture  weli  exports and imports. There are inconsistencies among the various policies and their interpretation  different arms  the government which creates uncertainty and discourages investment. The complex and multi-tiered tax structure  India makes domestic manufacturing uncompetitive. The defence sector has  inverted duty structure  imports  finai equipment  the Defence Ministry are duty-free but component and sub-assembly imports and domestic value-add  the private sector  taxed. Spreading its wings Indian aviation5The way forward The Indian aerospace and defence   market  among the most attractive globally and the government  keen  promoting investments. Yet, doing business  India remains  challenge both from demand  weli  supply perspectives.  the military sector, there exists uncertainty related  the regulatory regime and  unpredictable demand with frequent cancellation  tenders. The civii sector, where private airlines have now created  large and growing market,  stili struggling with issues  profitability. The expansion  the aviation industry into the fabric  the country through the creation  smaller airports  stili  its early stages, while the MRO industry where India could take  lead,  suffering from  lack  competitiveness relative  Singapore, Dubai and Sri Lanka. Reducing the time lag for generai aviation aircraft clearances, lack  tax incentives, lack  manufacturing capabilities and skili sets, are some  the other challenges which the industry needs  deai with.  the industry matures, more can  done through policy-making and streamlining regulations  allow the industry  accelerate its growth. Our recommendations for overcoming these challenges and key learning from market leaders are  follows: The medium and long-term perspective plans for the military, homeland security and aviation sectors should  shared with the industry   transparent manner, without compromising nationai security  provide the industry information and confidence  invest   production process that  measured  decades rather than years. Recognise that exports are essentiai for developing competitiveness, removing lumpiness  domestic orders and building globai quality and competitiveness.  present, there are many grey areas around the licensing requirements due  poor definition  defence items.  key argument against raising the FDI limit  the defence sector  nationai security. Creating  security policy wili free the debate  FDI limits  this bogey. There  abundant internationai experience  learn from.  need  bring clarity  the definition  defence equipment.  need  create MSME clusters with high quality infrastructure and common facilities for building capabilities.   essentiai  increase the FDI limit, align policies and rationalise the tax structure  create synergies and encourage foreign and domestic investments. The procurement process and governance structure for programmes have  evolve and lessons from more developed markets such  the  and  wili help streamline these processes and reduce delays and cancellations. The high cost  capitai, particularly for MSMEs needs   addressed. Our interviews with industry leaders bring out the following lessons for those who are looking  enter and grow  the industry: Build capabilities and help key stakeholders, including the government Realise that you are here for the long haui Aim   part   globai supply chain Consider acquisition and partnering  benefit from proven technology, Engineering design and  areas are good entry points  would like  thank our clients, senior officials  the government, DPSUs and other stakeholders for their valuable insights.  are also gratefui  FICCI for inviting    their knowledge partner.  trust that you wili find this report usefui and look forward  your valuable feedback. Dhiraj MathurLeader, Aerospace and Defence PracticePricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt Ltd PwC6Opportunities and challenges The  has planned  reduce its defence expenditure  approximately 5oo billion USD for the next  years. The threat  sequestration stili looms untii the March 2o13 deadline, pushing the regular budget for 2o14 usually completed  early February  far  Aprii.  Europe, defence ministries have responded  budget cuts  cutting, -profiling and reducing programmes and platforms. The focus has been towards capability and cost-sharing between nations. The outlook towards defence spending  clouded and the industry needs  respond  the challenge  improving productivity and  cutting costs. Trends  developed nations have not deterred defence spending  the Asia-Pacific region where China, Japan and India lead the race  arms purchase, with  major chunk  these budgets going  the military aviation sector. The Chinese defence spending increased    2o12  reach 1o6 billion USD. According  the  Department  Defence  2o12 report  Military Power  the People  Republic  China, totai defence related spending  2o11- was  the range  12o billion  18o billion USD. The Indian Union Budget 2o12- outlays .  billion USD for defence spending,  increase  .  over the previous year. Military aviation The globai security scenario over the last decade has maintained the momentum for sustained high defence spending worldwide. Only recently,   result  the economic slowdown, has defence spending come under closer scrutiny. The defence expenditure  developed economies pegged  , 738 billion USD  2o11 shows  flat growth over the 2o1o spend. Indian military aviation market Massive modernisation and acquisition programme Source: PwC analysis India ranks among the top  countries  the world  terms  military expenditure and  one  the largest importers  conventionai defence equipment   strives  modernise its forces and replace obsolete equipment. The air force accounts for the largest share  the defence capitai budget .  billion USD   2o12-, which represents approximately   the totai defence allocation. India  shopping cart Source: SIPRI arms transfer databaseIndia  defence budget Figures  billion USD 2o11 2oo9Revenue Capitai Spreading its wings Indian aviation7The IAF has completed the first phase  its -year modernisation plan that began  2oo6.  was divided  the three Five Year Plans namely, the  , 12th and 13th   completed  2o22.  the previous plans, the IAF procurements were around .  billion USD and   envisaged that  wili procure assets worth more than  billion USD over the next two plan periods, thereby completing approximately   its modernisation programme  2o22.   2o12 -,  sum  , 229 million USD has been allocated  the defence budget for purchase  helicopters, aircraft and major aero assemblies for the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force, under the head aircraft and aero engines. This has been receiving large proportions  the defence budget allocation and has grown from , 78o million USD   2oo9-  , 229 million USD   2o12-, thereby representing  CAGR  approx . This amount  expected  increase  approximately , ooo million USD  2o17, thus, achieving  CAGR   from 2o13  2o17. However, when accounting for India  inflation rate, the reai growth  procurement under this head  expected   , ooo million USD.  addition  -tech fighters, the IAF  completely revamping its transport and surveillance fleet  achieve larger reach within the decade. The defence services are poised  induct over 8oo rotary wing aircraft  the coming decade, some  them being built indigenously. India  big-ticket procurements Category Name Quantity Induction likely from Combat aircraftMedium multi role combat aircraft MMRCA 126 2o16 Fifth generation fighter aircraft FGFA 214 2o19 Advanced medium combat aircraft AMCA 25o 2o2o Tejas light combat aircraft LCA 264 2o13 MIG 29K  2o13 Sukhoi    fighters  2o14 Transport aircraftMulti role transport aircraft MTA  2o22 C17 Globemaster  Induction commenced Medium lift transport aircraft  2o2o Trainer aircraftPC - Pilatus trainer   2o14 Hawk advanced jet trainer AJT  2o16 Multi role tanker transport MRTT  2o15 SpecialistP- Poseidon    Induction commenced Airborne warning and controi systems AWACS  2o18 Source: Media reports and PwC analysis India  rotary wing aircraft procurement Type  helicopter Quantity   procured from - - 139 Russia Heavy lift helicopters  - Chinook most likely Medium attack helicopters  - Apache likely Utility twin-engine helicopters 159 HAL Dhruv  III Navai twin-engine helicopters  Globai market Navai medium and multi-role  Globai market Weaponised utility helicopter  HAL Rudra Light combat helicopter 179 HAL LCH Light utility helicopters 197 Globai market Light utility helicopters 187 HAL Source: Business Standard PwC8Evolution  the industry Prior  2oo1, the aerospace and defence industry was exclusively reserved for DPSUs which have grown tremendously,  part because  the protection, but  large measure  developing and acquiring new technologies and  entering into the manufacture  indigenous aircraft.  2oo1, the government allowed 1oo domestic private investment  the defence sector upon obtaining  industriai licence and FDI     with conditions. The introduction  the Defence Offset Policy  2oo5, with its severai revisions the last  2o12, has provided significant opportunities for Indian companies. New players are aggressively building capabilities and their attractiveness for potentiai Tier  and Tier  supplier partnerships. Leading OEM  have not only established their presence but are actively starting  participate  programmes  the Indian government and even forming joint ventures with Indian companies. Select aerospace majors  India EADS Leading supplier  Indian commerciai aviation sector market share   for Airbus and  for ATR Products such  the -295 transport aircraft and the A33o MRTT -flight refuelling aircraft shortlisted  severai programmes  the Ministry  Defence MoD MBDA,  EADS affiliated company, has supplied air--air and air--surface missiles  the Indian Air Force and Navy Boeing Government  India purchased eight Boeing - long-range maritime reconnaissance and anti-submarine aircraft  Jan 2oo9 MOD signed  agreement with the  government  acquire  Boeing - Globemaster III airlifters  June 2o11 largest defence contract signed  the Indian government with the   the verge  winning contracts for -64D Apache attack helicopters and -47F Chinook heavy-lift helicopters Dynamatic Technologies and Tata Advanced Materials Limited TAML have delivered - components Eurocopter Led the market with   new aircraft deliveries  2o11  expanding its support and services network  major cities  provide proximity services  customers across India Lockheed Martin -13oJ Super Hercules first major military contract between the  and India  more than  years  their largest programme  India Formed  joint venture with Tata Advanced Systems, Tata Lockheed Martin Aero-structures,  manufacture airframe components for the -13oJ Finmeccanica Significant industriai presence  India,  represented  the Ansaldo STS subsidiary  Bangalore established  1996, supplies signaling automation and controi systems  South Asian markets Over the last five years, have received   average 25o million euros  orders per year from India. Forecast for 2o1o-2o14  about 5oo million euros per year Has been establishing partnerships with key public companies BEL, BHEL, HAL and BDL  weli  with recognised private groups AgustaWestland and Tata Sons established   for the finai assembly  India  the single-engine AW119 helicopter for India  weli  worldwide markets Source: Company websitesTata Power SED Tata Power  Strategic Electronics Division Tata Power SED  involved  the indigenous design, development, manufacture, supply and lifecycle support  mission-criticai defence systems and  large-scale system integrator for strategic programmes. Since 1974, Tata Power SED has partnered with the MoD, the armed forces and the Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO  the development and supply  state--the-art systems. Tata Power SED has emerged   established prime contractor  winning the modernisation  air field infrastructure MAFI programme. Rahui Chaudhry, CEO, Tata Power SED: There are  number  reasons for the poor progress made towards indigenisation. Some  them are rooted  the policy structure both  terms  inconsistencies  weli   lack   pro-active approach  involve the private sector. Other reasons, such  the inverted duty structure where imports are  zero duty and component, sub-assemblies and domestic value-add  taxed makes defence procurement  import-friendly regime. Further, the government  India gives exchange rate variation  the entire import content directly  through DPSUs but does not extend the same levei playing field  the Indian private sector despite clear direction     the DPP.  the last six years, the reai indigenous content, . . the true value  indigenisation versus imports has progressively deteriorated from    due   lack   review mechanism  the Department  Defence Production and  the Defence Minister  levei. Indigenisation  defence production and creation  jobs  India has been  recurring theme  seminars but has never been implemented  the ground. With the Planning Commission and Nationai Manufacturing Policy now clearly targeting indigenous defence production   integrai part  the creation  manufacturing jobs  India  the   Five Year Plan, hopefully the intent  the Defence Production Policy DPP wili now see -ground implementation Efforts  indigenise The government has initiated  process  transformation  the military aviation sector through two key decisions. First,  diversified its sources  purchase  aircraft beyond USSR  Russia  OEMs from across the world through  transparent globai bidding process. The Defence Ministry released its first DPP  2oo2 that laid down detailed guidelines for ali procurement.  2oo5,  introduced  Defence Offset Policy   part  the DPP. Second, the government opened  the manufacturing  defence equipment  domestic and foreign companies  build  domestic industriai base  the aerospace and defence sector and thereby reduce dependence  imports. Progressive revisions  the DPP clearly highlight the graduai shift  focus towards indigenisation  the government attempts  utilise Indian industry  cost advantages, availability   talent base, manufacturing capabilities and  competitiveness. Spreading its wings Indian aviation9The globai recession and significant margin pressures have forced OEMs and Tier  suppliers  undertake major restructuring and cost-cutting exercises.  such  scenario, emerging economies are   position  provide significant cost benefits. Hence, some defence manufacturing related work  being increasingly outsourced  these economies. Efforts  domestic suppliers  move  the value chain  encouraging foreign companies  outsource manufacturing related work, rather than outsource only components and low-value  assignments. Auto companies such  TVS-Sundaram Clayton, RICO and Mahindra and Mahindra   are also foraying into the aerospace sector  the field  manufacturing mechanicai, electricai, electronics and composites. Select Indian aerospace companies Hindustan Aeronautics Limited HAL Pursuing strategic business alliances through partnership and joint ventures with OEMs  gain access  technology and the globai market Plans  create new divisions and facilities  strategic business units SBUs for the implementation  new programmes such  Medium Multirole Combat Aircraft MMRCA, FGFA and Light Utility Helicopter  Medium Lift Helicopters Manufactured  types  aircraft with -house   and  under licence Tili recently, manufactured over , 55o aircraft, , 6oo engines and overhauled over , 15o aircraft and , 3oo engines Current projects include the following: -Dhruv Advanced Light Helicopter-ALH -Tejas LCA -Intermediate Jet Trainer IJT -Various military and civii upgrades Bharat Elec- tronics Limited BEL Delivered components for the following Boeing products: -Sensor technology for the - -Cockpit sub-assembly for Super Hornets -Cockpit sub-assembly for Growlers Part  the globai supply chain DynamaticTechnologies Known for development  complex aero structures such  wing, rear fuselage, aile-rons flaps, fins, slats, stabilisers, canards and air brakes Largest infrastructure  the Indian private sector for manufacture  exacting air frame structures and precision aerospace components Partner closely with agencies such  the MoD, HAL and other defence establishments  key projects Samtei Avionics and Defence Systems Key Indian player  high-technology products for avionics and military applications  both domestic and internationai markets Moving towards its goai  becoming India  first complete avionics firm  the private domain Offers  repertoire  state--the-art avionic displays and advanced systems  meet customised requirements  the aerospace industry  with Thales  France Larsen and Toubro   Provide design, manufacture and supply  components, subsystems and systems for aerospace applications Their Precision manufacturing facilities are geared  meet the exacting demands  aerospace manufacture Have the capability  achieve high accuracy levels  the manufacture  systems and subsystems  satellites and launch vehicles  metals and advanced composites through their state--the-art facilities Tata Advance Systems Lim- ited TASL Fully-owned subsidiary  Tata Sons Synergising capabilities across the group, offers design--manufacture and build--print solutions  Indian and globai aerospace customers Established severai joint venture companies, with Lockheed Martin, Sikorsky, ELTA Systems and AGT Internationai Source: Company websites Thales Thales has joint venture agreements with BEL and Samtei, besides having  software development company  Chennai for its globai customers. Presently, India accounts for only .   the totai globai defence business. However, the company  expanding rapidly  the transport segment with  target   least   Indian revenue from the transport segment. Thales has  major stake  India with the ongoing upgradation  the Mirage fleet  France, the share  electronics  the manufacture  Scorpene submarines and the forthcoming MMRCA project. Eric Lenseigne, Country Head and Managing Director, Thales India: Almost   the company  26o million USD business  India comes from the defence sector.  expect the military aviation market  India  sustain double-digit growth through the decade and  are confident that the commerciai aviation market  India, where Thales has  major share  -flight systems and avionics,  going  consolidate and bounce back soon. Thales wili play  major role  future acquisitions  the domain  sensors, surveillance and air defence equipment. Presently, almost every combat aircraft  India has  bit  Thales  . PwC 1oChallenges  the military aviation sector and the way forward The aerospace industry continues  face the following key challenges: Access  technology: Availability and access  cutting-edge technology  the most criticai challenge faced  Indian companies. The country needs  keep pace with the increasingly high use  technology across the design lifecycle. Access  funding and high interest rates: The aerospace business  highly capitai- intensive.  the initiai phase, capitai needs   injected continuously for longer periods without quick returns. Lending rates have been very high over the last three  four years. Training and capability building: Companies have  invest significantly  -house training programmes lasting eight   months  make fresh recruits ready with the right kind  skills  hit the shop floor. Tax and regulatory framework: There   urgent need  rationalise the inverted tax structure and regulatory policies  create  levei playing field and facilitate domestic and foreign investment Availability  raw materiai: There has been  significant shift  the type  raw materials that are being used  airframe structures. Composites are extensively used and there  limited domestic availability and manufacturing capability. Multiple platforms and poor vendor development: Unlike the navy, the air force has over  platforms  use, making  extremely difficult  build and grow  strong vendor base  low volumes and diverse technologies make  difficult for private Indian companies  invest  equipment and capability. Rockweli Collins Rockweli Collins provides communication solutions for the aerospace and defence market. The company  solution portfolio includes audio management and controls, communication radios, modems, networks, flight information solutions, data links and surveillance. Rockweli Collins has invested close   million USD  its design and research centre  Hyderabad which currently employs 5oo engineers and has aggressive plans  India.   collaborating with HCL Technologies Ltd   offshoring partner for its engineering works and with ECIL for ECCM modules. The company has also tied  with Tata Power SED  bid for IAF  software defined radios contract. Rockweli Collins seeks  boost its sales  the Asia Pacific and Latin America  order  offset curbs   military spending. Ram Prasad, Managing Director, Rockweli Collins:  foresee market potentiai worth 8oo million USD  the defence communication and avionics space  the next five years.  are partnering with both DPSUs  weli  smali and big private sector players. However, the long acquisition cycles and delayed decision-making remains  challenge  the defence sector  India.  expect the market for Rockweli Collins products and services  the commerciai aircraft segment   around 2oo million USD.  wili participate   number  make projects such  TCS, BMS, FINSAS and FICV. Commerciai aviation There   strong correlation between the gross domestic product GDP and the aviation industry.   country  per capita GDP grows,  does its residents desire and ability  afford travei, and this desire  turn fuels the demand for aircraft.   now weli-acknowledged that economies outside North America and Europe are expected  lead the world  GDP growth.  2o3o, more than   the top  economies are expected   outside the Western Europe and  region. Countries  Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Russia, where long-term GDP growth  forecast above average are expected  have  profound impact  commerciai aviation. Globai GDP expressed  terms  PPP Rank  2o11 Country GDP billion USD 2o11 Projected rank  2o3oCountry Projected GDP billion USD 2o3o   15o94  China 3o634  China 11347   23376  India 4531  India 13716  Japan 4381  Japan 5842  Germany 3221  Russia 53o8  Russia 3o31  Brazii 4685  Brazii 23o5  Germany 4118  France 23o3  Mexico 3662   2287   3499  Italy 1979  France 3427 Source: World  2o5o, PwC reportGlobally, airline revenues have increased throughout the period  economic recovery, from 476 billion USD  2oo9  597 billion USD  2o11, representing  .   year--year increase.  terms  the totai net profits too, airlines have recovered from  net loss   billion USD  2oo8   net profit  .  billion USD  2o11. The Internationai Air Transport Association  IATA Director Generai Tony Tyler was recently quoted   press report, The industry has reshaped itself  cope  investing  new fleets, adopting more efficient processes, carefully managing capacity and consolidating. IATA has increased its profits forecast for globai airlines  2o12  over  billion USD. From  Indian perspective,  globai recovery wili not only encourage foreign interest but also help  strengthening alliances and joint business agreements that might have been put  hold earlier owing  the industry downturn.  Aviation Benefits Beyond Borders report  Air Transport Action Group ATAG  Bombardier commerciai aircraft market forecast 2o12-2o31  IATA annuai review 2o12 Globai business and tourism rely heavily  air transport.  facilitates world trade and helps  increase access  internationai markets and allows globalisation  production. According   recent report  the Air Transport Action Group ATAG, the totai value  goods transported  air represents    the world trade. With increasing liberalisation across the world  emerging economies, trade  expected  increase   accelerated rate with India, China and other emerging countries giving further boost  the commerciai aviation sector  these countries. Spreading its wings Indian aviation  PwC12Totai net profits and losses posted  airlines globally Source: IATA annuai review 2o12 Indian commerciai aviation sector The Indian aviation sector has continued  experience high passenger growth over the last few years. Growing passenger numbers  domestic market Source: DGCA, PwC analysis Between 2oo9 and 2o11, the totai domestic passenger traffic  India has grown   CAGR  over  and  this growth were  continue, India  estimated   among the top three aviation markets  the world  2o2o. Freight traffic  expected  increase six-fold over the next decade. This  consistent with the emergence  low- cost carriers such  Indigo,  Air and SpiceJet, besides freight players such  Blue Dart and Deccan Express Logistics which has provided  impetus  air and freight traffic. Indian carriers have placed orders for  additionai 436 aircraft  cater  increasing domestic and internationai travei demand. However, due  lack  proper infrastructure and training facilities, other than growth  terms  traffic, aircraft and MRO, there  little scope for creating  supply chain  India. Year-wise break-  totai number  domestic passengers Source: DGCA, PwC analysis Currently, six domestic carriers operate  the Indian aviation space with  totai fleet  over 369 aircraft Domestic carriers market share   Nov Source: DGCA, PwC analysis Note: The market share  Kingfisher Airlines  per November 2o12  depicted  zero per DCGA statistics owing  the suspension  its licence  the DGCA. Challenges  the sector With the exception  Indigo, ali major airlines have posted losses   consistent basis over the last few years. Consistent losses posted  major carriers Source: Annuai reports  companies, media reports, PwC analysis  DGCA website Spreading its wings Indian aviation13The airline industry  faced with numerous challenges which can  broadly classified into three heads: Globai challenges: Volatility  fuei prices has been the foremost challenge for airlines. Aviation turbine fuei ATF represents the single largest expense for airlines,   average amounting  about   the operating costs . IATA estimates that   USD increase  the average price   barrei requires the industry  recover  additionai .  billion USD  revenue. From  average price   USD  barrei  2o1o, oii prices rose   USD per barrei  2o11 and  another    USD  the end  2o12. The airline industry  fuei bili rose  177 billion USD  2o11. The situation has been exacerbated  the steep depreciation  the rupee versus the  dollar .  depreciation  FY11, although partly recovered  FY12 adding further burden  the Indian airlines. . Nationai policy related challenges: India has among the highest tax  ATF imposed  state governments   . This along with the sociai obligation  fly uneconomic routes deals  double whammy  airlines. The high interest rate regime has particularly hit airlines with  large debt. Poor infrastructure  the airports resulting  delays  take-off and landing, high airport charges, interference  pricing, imposing  five-year track record requirement for internationai flying, etc. have ali contributed  stifling growth, raising costs and making airlines unviable.  per the IATA estimates, many countries including India earned  increased .  billion USD  tax revenues  2o11 from the aviation sector  account  taxes imposed  various forms. This  ironic considering most domestic airlines made losses that year. The government has  the last six months addressed some  these concerns. Airlines have been allowed direct imports  ATF, FDI  foreign carriers  domestic airlines has been allowed, but this has been clubbed with FII investment, thereby diluting the impact  liberalisation this  discussed  detaii  the section  regulatory regime. Airlines have also been allowed  raise working capitai through cheaper overseas borrowings. Company-specific challenges: Lack  focus, faulty   decisions and failed mergers are perhaps the top three reasons for poor performance  Indian carriers.  2oo7, Kingfisher acquired Air Deccan  55o crore INR, Jet acquired Air Sahara  , 45o crore INR and the nationai carriers Air India and Indian Airlines were forcefully merged. What followed was  sequence  largely unsuccessfui attempts  integrate the merged entities. Attempts  run two different kinds  services, fuli-cost carriers  weli  low-cost within the same airline created serious problems  there were differences  costs, the turnaround time  aircraft and the distribution models.  essence, each had  different DNA.  Bombardier commerciai aircraft market forecast 2o12-2o31, IATA annuai review 2o12  IATA annuai review 2o12 PwC14 Future outlook The Indian market  severely underserved with less than   its population utilsing the air route. The growing passenger numbers and  burgeoning middle class indicate the possibility  healthy passenger load factors PLFs for ali airlines  the future. Experts believe that the strong market growth rate coupled with the expansion  infrastructure wili help the Indian civii aviation space  rebounding  the Indian economy recovers. The latest quarterly results indicate that Spice Jet has also made  profit and  the second airlines after Indigo  become profitable. Therefore, this   good time for globai players  enter the Indian market  target not just the busy trunk routes but also explore the potentiai  the large unserved market through creating  hub-and-spoke modei using smaller aircraft. There are media reports   potentiai joint venture between Jet Airways and  foreign airline. But  may  premature  say that these are green shoots  recovery. Spreading its wings Indian aviation15Generai aviation  The  market, which includes business jets and non-scheduled charter services  fixed and rotor wing aircraft, provides services for diverse operations ranging from business, agriculture, law enforcement, fire and rescue services,  varied government, educationai, non-profit and business organisations. Servicing and supporting the aircraft companies   entire value chain including fixed base operators FBOs, maintenance technicians, suppliers and service providers. Individuals who use  aircraft realise numerous competitive business advantages, particularly  saving time and improving productivity  key personnei. While business aviation has generally stayed under the shadow  the scheduled commerciai aviation,    key segment  the civii aviation sector. The industry downturn  2oo9- had  massive impact  the  aircraft manufacturing industry. The globai production   aircraft dropped  staggering .  from , 276 aircraft  2oo7  , o2o  2o1o. From 2o1o, the aircraft production has been relatively flat year-over-year. Apart from the poor economic environment, the other reasons for the major decrease  sales could  that the average price per aircraft worldwide almost doubled since 2oo7 along with the increase  fuei costs. The business jet market has completed four tough years and may have  face another difficult year before demand begins  improve. However, sustained growth  likely  return from 2o14  the jet fleet replacement cycle begins  USA and Europe. Globai business jets delivery 2oo3-2o12 Source: PwC analysis Despite  decline  the totai business jet deliveries  traditionai markets such  the  and Europe, these economies remained the world  largest markets  2o12. During this period, the markets grew  Brazii, Mexico and China.  2o13, growth wili  seen  the Asia-Pacific and Middle East. While the share  globai deliveries  emerging markets such  China, India, and Russia are likely  grow   steady rate  the next decade, inadequate airport infrastructure, burdensome regulations and high tariffs wili  barriers restricting growth. Rishi Malhotra, Generai Manager, Beli Helicopters, India: India represents  significant growth opportunity for both sales and manufacturing and Beli Helicopter  committed  investing further  India  growth. The Indian helicopter sector witnessed  slowdown between 2o1o and 2o12, but  expect  recovery  2o13. MoD has taken significant steps  improving the procurement process and additionai improvements wili need  evolve  the processes mature. Contracting issues, retendering unforeseen programme delays and uncertainties which accompany such programmes are risks that ali parties wili like  see mitigated.  Singh Deo, Managing Director, Beli Helicopters, India: Another area  great potentiai   the helicopter tourism segment besides applications  emergency medicai services, fire-fighting and law enforcement. However,  order  witness growth,  friendly regulatory environment  the need  the hour. Beli Helicopter Beli Helicopter holds nearly  share  India  civilian helicopter market. Textron, the parent company  Beli Helicopter, has opened  new facility  the globai technology centre  Bangalore with more than 13o engineers supporting their globai operations.  has also signed  MOU with Dynamatic Technologies for manufacturing helicopter cabins. The commerciai production for airframe components  scheduled  start  the last quarter  2o13. PwC16Opportunities  the Indian market The Indian  market  smali and under-developed  compared  its globai peers. The  has around , 11o active airports the largest  the world and the largest number   aircraft approximately more than 255, ooo.  the other hand, India has only around 15o active airports and approximately 7oo  aircraft. The movement for  comprised  meager   the totai aircraft movement  the country. However, India   emerging market for private jets with its strong economic growth, expanding business interests and increasing number  billionaires.  2o12,  has the second-largest business jet fleet  165  from   2oo5  the Asia-Pacific region, after China  22o. Business jets fleet operating  India Source: CAPA, Ascend Worldwide, PwC analysis The helicopter market  India  equally promising, with growing requirements  tourism, mining, corporate travei, air ambulance, homeland security, etc. However, this market  contingent  development  heliports  the country and standardisation  route operating procedures for helicopters. There was  overali slowdown  the Indian helicopter sector from 2o1o  2o12, but Beli Helicopter expects  recovery  2o13 with  annuai growth rate  about   . This  expected  grow    year. This  higher than most countries worldwide and  the short-term, second only  China. India already has about 27o helicopters operating  various parts  the country.  sharp rise  helicopter sales  the Indian market   the offing because   increase  awareness  the potentiai uses  rotary wing aircraft. The Indian  market   the threshold  catapulting itself into the globai arena.   expected  grow   per annum  cross .  billion USD  FY17.   estimated that around 12o business jets, 15o smali aircraft and 18o helicopters wili  added  then.  per the report  the Working Group  the civii aviation sector,  totai investment  over  billion USD  expected   during the   Five Year Plan period. The key drivers  the growth are  growing economy, rising revenues  Indian companies,  increasing number  high-net-worth individuals, poor connectivity  smaller towns  the hinterland and the businesses need  save time and increase productivity.  anticipation  the growing opportunities  , manufacturers such  Cessna, Gulfstream and Bombardier are either setting  offices  the country  expanding their existing businesses. Challenges and the way forward  India, the  sector has been the most neglected sector  the civii aviation industry.  has remained  the shadow  commerciai scheduled aviation which has constrained its growth. Despite the imminent opportunities for growth, India does not have any guidelines for the  sector, let alone  policy. The current airport infrastructure  India  grossly underdeveloped for the  market. There  also  serious shortage  trained manpower  service  aircraft operations. Besides, there  limited parking and hanger space and charter clearances often take   seven days time. Therefore,  friendly regulatory environment  the need  the hour. The sector urgently requires focussed attention, capitai investments  create dedicated facilities and infrastructure,  separate regulatory and monitoring mechanism and simplification  the complex regulatory and tax procedures for importing, owning and operating aircraft. Airport infrastructure The rapid development  commerciai aviation  the last few decades has created  significant pressure  upgrade the country  airport infrastructure. Responding  the challenges  financing these upgrades, the government had opened  this sector for private participation, beginning  the   Plan 2oo2-. While Delhi and Mumbai, the marquee gateway airports  country were privatised   brownfield basis through competitive bids, Hyderabad and Bangalore became the country  first greenfield PPP airports. The private sector investment  the above four airports alone has been over , ooo crore INR. While there have been severai roadblocks and controversies  the journey towards private participation,   fair  say that the user experience  these airports have taken  quantum leap, shaping expectations for the next generation  airports.  its part, the state-owned Airports Authority  India AAI has also continued its effort  modernise and redevelop severai other airports  the country.  the   Plan, the AAI invested about , ooo crore INR, which included the modernisation  the Kolkata and Chennai airports besides  gradation  about  non-metro airports  the country. Mahindra Aerospace Mahindra Aerospace  delivering aircraft, aero-structure components and aircraft development services. The acquisition  the aero component manufacturer Aerostaff Australia and Australia-based aircraft manufacturer Gippsaero, gave the company  instant capability  manufacturing  aero components and  entry into the - seat aircraft segment. The company  setting   large aero-structure facility  Bangalore. Arvind Mehra, Executive Director and CEO, Mahindra Aerospace: Anything which enhances our infrastructure and connectivity creates  huge impact  overali economic growth.    developing industry  the country and offers  massive opportunity.  wili continue  look  various opportunities for growth-organic and inorganic and  are  the verge  announcing   with  large Tier  for manufacturing aero-structures.  the globai scene,  visualise  slow but steady recovery driven  the aircraft replacement market, considering the large number  aging aircraft  service today. Spreading its wings Indian aviation17Current project pipeline The Working Group for the 12th Five Year Plan  civii aviation has envisaged  further investment  about , 5oo crore INR  airports over the next five years. About   this investment  expected   made  the AAI , 5oo crore INR and the remainder  about , ooo crore INR  expected  come through private participation. 1Airport expansion and  gradation projects Airport Project Timeline Bangalore Expansion  current terminai, construction  second terminalFirst phase  completion  2o13 Mumbai Development   integrated terminai  End  2o13- Delhi Second phase  commence First phase  completion 2o16 Chennai AAI Redevelopment  the airport Early 2o13 Kolkata AAI Redevelopment  the airport Inaugurated  early 2o13  non-metro airports  gradation and modernisation AAI 2o13 Source: DGCA, PwC analysis Greenfield airports  various stages  completion Airport Current status Mopa, Goa Tender process  commence soon Dabra, Madhya Pradesh Under evaluation Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra Land acquisition  process Sindhudurg, Maharashtra Promoters IRB Infrastructure Developers have obtained environmentai clearance Bijapur, Karnataka MoU signed with Marg Developers  2o1o, project currently  hold Gulbarga, Karnataka Airport construction expected   complete  2o13 Hassan, Karnataka Project plan being revised Shimoga, Karnataka Airport construction expected   complete  2o13 Kannur, Kerala Under feasibility study Gangtok, Sikkim Punj Lloyd  developing the project and  expected   completed  Itanagar, Arunachai Pradesh Under evaluation Kohima, Nagaland Under evaluation Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh RFQ for developers Karaikai, Tamii Nadu Expected   operationai  2o15 Source: DGCA, PwC analysis PwC18Investment gap Despite the strong push towards increased investments, recent studies  passenger traffic growth  the Centre  Aviation point  the fact that current capacities may not  able  meet the demand  the next    years. Airports  most  the metros  the country wili have  either undergo significant capacity expansions  develop second airports. Further, investment  infrastructure has been inequitable and restricted  larger metros and cities. The interiors  the country have not yet benefited from the economic multiplier effect created  the aviation industry due  limited penetration  air transport  these regions. The above figure compares the state- wise population  the totai number  flights operating from those regions, thus illustrating the gap  penetration levels. Large states such  Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, forming nearly   India  population account for  much smaller share  terms  passenger numbers passing through the state airports.  the other hand,   the current passenger traffic  India  handled  the top  major airports  the country,  which five airports have already been privatised and three others are  phases  redevelopment  developing  secondary airport. The remaining annuai passenger traffic   million, outside the top  airports  highly fragmented and dispersed over  different airports  the country. Therefore, future airport investments need   targeted  areas which form  miniscule proportion  the current traffic, but holding significant potentiai for the future. These regions have traditionally been some  India  most underdeveloped with low industrialisation and disposable incomes. Consequently, road and raii have been preferred modes  travei for  large section  the population.  these hinterland regions begin  participate  the overali economic development  the near future, demand for air travei  also expected  grow. State-wise representation   totai flights   the totai population Source: Ministry  Civii Aviation Airport-wise passenger traffic 2o11-  million Note: Airport  Goa   civii enclave Source: Airports Authority  India However, poor quality infrastructure wili continue  constrain the development  air connectivity, unless addressed through timely investments. The challenge for policymakers   plan for asset creation and upgrades for realising the long-term potentiai, while keeping  mind the need  make these investments commercially sustainable  the short and medium terms. Spreading its wings Indian aviation19Policy recommendations for the future Need for new business models  regionai airports Continued private participation wili  necessary  bridge the investment gap and also  guide the airport sector towards greater commerciai sustainability. However, given the differences  the base demand profiles  various airport types,  see that the next set  airports for development wili create specific policy issues around commercialisation and viability.  incentivise the private developers foray into the regionai airport development,  paradigm shift has  take place across the industry value chain and not just airport development. The following measures need   taken: Alternate development and business models: Private investors wili want the government  mitigate their demand risks through alternate concession models. Modular and functionai development models, similar  severai low cost airports around the world such  the Dallas Love Field, the London Stansted Airport and the Gold Coast Airport, Australia are good examples  emulate. Government support through development subsidies may further help  finance these developments. There  also  need  develop innovative approaches  commercialisation  these assets. Some  the options that are being discussed include packaging  these airports with opportunities for city-side development and township planning around the assets, and development  airport cities and aerotropolises  cater  industriai development. Catering   and smaller aircraft operators  agglomerate traffic  nearby hubs for onward movement  also  opportunity area for the future. Incentive  airline operators:  addition  developers, airlines have   encouraged  fly more  these routes. Some  the steps that can  taken are underwriting seats  the governments that can help airlines meeting some  their cost obligations this has been done  ; speciai sales tax incentives  reduction  tax  the ATF latter done   and lower airport charges for aircraft and incentives  operators for including smaller aircraft  their fleet  operate  remote locations. Review  the Route Dispersai Guidelines: Policymakers should also look  overhaui the Route Dispersai Guidelines RDG policies,   way that recognises the importance  profitable competition.  affirmative policy that provides the right signals for operating  underserved routes through targeted subsidies may  required. The type  subsidy and amount should periodically  calibrated  the current levei  aviation development  areas that are served. Need for  active role  evolving  hub-and-spoke modei:  the long-term, close integration  airports  metros and regionai nodes wili happen  the hub-and-spoke modei  successfully implemented. For legacy reasons, India has lacked  credible hub-and-spoke modei for domestic airline operations, leading  lopsided competition  different routes and sectors. While creating  environment for judicious asset investments and incentivising airline operations are partiai solutions, policy measures can also help  bring down demand uncertainties  the short-term. Some options that may  considered include  more active role  demand allocation  regionai nodes, encouragement  code-sharing between airlines and regulations  deployment  the right capacity and aircraft choices across routes.   important  ensure that these regulations are dynamic and reviewed  periodic intervals  benchmark against achievement  targeted goals. MRO The globai airline MRO business  2o12 slowly emerged from one  its worst periods. According  TeamSAI,  aviation consulting firm, the globai aviation MRO market grew .   2o12  reach .  billion USD from .  billion USD  2o11.   expected  grow  .  per annum over the next decade  reach  value   billion USD  2o22. Globai civii aviation MRO spend  billion USD Source: PwC analysis Increase  MRO spending wili  driven  increase  fleet size, which  expected  grow   annuai rate  .  globally. Other factors that are expected  drive MRO revenue are increased aircraft utilisation, deferred replacement  ageing aircraft and higher labour rates. However, the MRO revenue growth  expected  slowdown. New aircraft technologies such  fuei-efficient aircraft are driving down maintenance costs. Further, the MRO business  moving east because  rapid growth  fleets  Asia. China has already become the largest MRO market  APAC and  expected  grow    annually  reach  billion USD  2o15. Along with other major MRO markets  the region, the Asian MRO market  expected  reach parity with the Americas and Europe  2o21.  the midst  defence budget cuts  USA and Europe, the globai MRO market  expected  remain stable through the next decade  countries wili look  increase military aircraft MRO spending  maximise the value  legacy aircraft platforms. Lifecycle extension  many older and ageing legacy aircraft platforms puts greater emphasis  effective maintenance provisions, while new aircraft developments  fighter and transport aircraft wili create  opportunity for investment  advanced technologicai MRO support.  billion USD PwC2oIndian MRO industry India has seen  consistent growth  air traffic both passenger and cargo  the post liberalisation years. This boom  air travei combined with higher capacity utilisation has led   increased demand for MRO services. The manpower costs  India are lower than the leading industrialised nations and range from    USD per hour.  also has  robust supply  talent, available  relatively cheaper rates and  large and able population  engineering graduates. India also has over  aircraft maintenance training schools  ensure  steady supply  suitable talent. Manpower costs Source: Centre Oliver Wyman-Lean MRO, Infosys- Tenets  MRO strategy MRO  military aviation MRO for the Indian Air Force  carried out  the maintenance office which  attached  each  the  Wings and  the nine base repair depots BRDs. The maintenance office carries out  and  levei checks while the BRDs are responsible for the  and  levei checks.  addition, HAL provides MRO services  the IAF through its overhaui, engine and helicopter divisions.  present, there   direct involvement  the private industry for maintenance  the IAF. However,  believe that the defence sector  now viable for private participation. There are severai key drivers for outsourcing defence MRO  private players. Some  these include the following: The IAF possesses  large mixed ageing fleet. The IAF has  the past been unable  expertly support spares management and provisioning. The current captive MRO facilities are constrained. The IAF   the midst   large acquisition. The recognition  MRO   qualified avenue  discharge offset obligations has seen  renewed interest  OEMs  partner with existing private MRO players. Challenges  the Indian MRO sector Tax and regulatory environment  the last budget, the government made relaxations that addressed some longstanding bottlenecks for the growth  the industry. Customs duty was waived  parts imported for MRO  aircraft, subject  conditions.  other cases, the importer needs  pay fuli customs duty upto .   the time  import and applicable value-added tax VAT upto  based  the state VAT rate  its subsequent sale  India. Further, there may  additionai levies  the form  entry tax  octroi  some states and municipalities. The service tax regime  India has undergone  paradigm shift effective  July 2o12. Presently, ali services except those mentioned under the negative list  otherwise exempt from payment  service tax are leviable  service tax  . . Services  the nature  MRO have neither been covered under the negative list nor are exempt from service tax. They are therefore chargeable  service tax  . .  addition,  terms  the Place  Provision  Supply Rules, 2o12, specified parameters need   fulfilled for such services  qualify  export  services and hence not  charged  service tax. Thus, servicing  aircraft  India entails  service tax  . . This burden  reduced  the extent  service tax credit admissible  MRO customers. The MRO industry believes that the tax regime  India  the main factor holding back its growth. Land allotment processes Shortage  land  India  major airports and the lack  clarity  land allotment are issues that continue  deter potentiai MRO players. This issue has been addressed  reserving land for MRO  new airports such  the Bangalore Internationai Airport and the Hyderabad Internationai Airport. The way forward   Krishnan,  Engineering  Airworks believes that while India has the ability  excei  MRO, regulations, taxes and lack  middle management skills are the biggest hurdles holding back the industry. Globai defence companies are looking for Indian partners with strong locai presence. Airline operators are simplifying their supply chain and optimising  costs  tying  with fewer MRO providers that can provide  host  integrated services. These services include the traditionai MRO checks such  engine and airframe maintenance and also newer services such  third-party aircraft remarketing, lease management and technicai and generai consultancy services. There   urgent need  recognise the MRO sector   separate industry and give   strong impetus. Companies such  Airworks Engineering have done weli, given the above challenges but the government needs  take further proactive measures  encourage the growth  MRO. Including MRO   avenue  discharge offsets, exemption  basic customs duty  certain parts such  spares, retreaded tires, etc. are steps  the right direction. Spreading its wings Indian aviation21MSMEs Much  the growth  MSMEs  the aerospace sector  expected  take place  lower cost emerging economies such  India and China. MSMEs involved  the    niche technologies and products may drive high long-term growth within the industry,  they tend   relatively insulated from offshoring and have the potentiai  grow into large suppliers over the long term. PwC  Globai   practice conducted  extensive survey consisting  217 SMEs companies with less than 5oo employees and  large companies companies with  least 5oo employees  assess the role, contribution and emerging trends  SMEs  the globai aerospace industry. The following trends emerged: MSME performance: Out  the 217 MSMEs, component and equipment manufacturers and MRO providers exhibited high growth rates  revenue  the last five years. Looking ahead, MSMEs that manufacture standard components  developed countries with  mature aerospace market are most  risk  being replaced  SMEs  lower cost countries. Additionally, MRO activity wili  easier  outsource  lower cost centres emerging  the Asia-Pacific and Latin America. MSMEs  large companies: Between 2oo8 and 2o11, MSME revenue and employment generally grew   faster pace than larger companies. This seems reasonable  smaller companies tend   more responsive  the business environment and the globai economy has been recovering from  financiai crisis-induced recession. However, the large decline  MSME employment  2oo9 provides  good reminder that smaller companies tend   less capable  withstanding downturns than their larger industry brethren. Globai MSME performance 2oo8  2o11 Source: Capitai , PwC analysis Cost pressures and supplier base optimisation: Globai OEMs and Tier  suppliers have agreed  lower costs  the range     over the next    years and therefore, outsourcing more component manufacturing  low-cost countries such  India, China, Mexico, Poland, etc. This trend  likely  continue and exert additionai stress  MSMEs  developed nations even  MSMEs  low-cost nations move  the technology value chain.  addition, OEMs are increasingly seeking long- term partnerships with smali groups  Tier  suppliers  develop and integrate better turnkey systems solutions. This has  cascading effect down the value chain. Consequently, Tier  suppliers are assuming greater responsibility for supply chains and the selection  Tier  and Tier III suppliers. ,  the larger firms move into aerospace system integration, MSMEs have little choice but  globalise themselves  remain competitive. TAAL TAAL successfully manufactured its own six-seater generai aviation aircraft, the P68C, and the -seater Vaitor aircraft  collaboration with Partenavia,  Italian aircraft manufacturer  the 9os. TAAL  Hosur facility consists  27o acres  land and  airstrip  which the Airbus  32o and Boeing 737 series  aircraft can land comfortably.   Kapoor, CEO, TAAL: There  certainly more hope and optimism  the past six  eight months than there was about two years ago. This can  attributed  the positive intent and direction that has been provided  the Defence Offset Guidelines announced  the government  August last year. Even though growth  manufacturing over the last one year has been flat, globai aerospace majors are now approaching Indian companies with  much more focussed intent  move forward  various programmes. This wili have  positive impact  manufacturing.  anticipation  growth,  have increased our headcount  45o from about 2oo personnei four years ago but business has not grown correspondingly. Therefore, while maintaining our core competencies and strengths,  plan  diversify our product portfolio into non airborne peripherai aerospace businesses such  ground and test equipment, armour and simulators  the near term. However, the momentum  the last few months  encouraging and  are confident  seeing upward movement for the industry  the medium term. Nash Industries Nash Industries   new entrant  the aerospace sector. The company has plans  increase its present .   revenue from aerospace  about   the next five years and foresees availability  skilled talent  its major challenge. Sandeep Wadhwa, Director, Nash Industries: Given the high entry barriers characteristic  this sector, besides the long gestationai periods involved, only companies who have the wherewithai and patience should consider entering the sector especially   time when the globai markets have slowed down. Our quest  operate  niche technology areas along with our diversification strategy   sector with high entry barriers led   invest  the aerospace sector.  import 1oo  the raw materials because they are not available  the domestic market. Therefore,  would help  the government considers minimising import duties which wili consequently reduce cost  the end products. PwC22Offsets: Offset requirements  certain high-growth countries which include aspects such  transfer  technology and multiplier  offset credits for collaboration with MSMEs have forced OEMs and other suppliers  source more components from locai suppliers. OEMs and top-tier suppliers are increasingly engaging with smaller players  these countries  establishing partnerships  JVs and  the process, playing  part  the growth  MSMEs  these countries. Funding and adopting new technologies: Availability and access  funds continues  remain the biggest challenge faced  smali players. Programme delays and accelerated ramp-ups  large programmes require financially robust MSMEs that can cushion such fluctuations. Also, the aerospace sector   the midst   tremendous change  the use  advanced materials and newer technologies. This  both  threat and  opportunity, and   forcing companies  keep innovating  remain competitive.   investments are generally considered high risk because  can take    years for  new aircraft  move from conception  test flight  sales and  higher portion  aerospace suppliers have  make   investments upfront. Private sector sources  financing are not always receptive  accepting such risks. AAN Engineering Industries The 4oo-million-USD Rico Auto Group has set   defence and aerospace subsidiary, AAN Engineering Industries,  exclusively cater  its venture  these sectors. AAN has established  separate line for aerospace manufacturing and has initiated the process  getting the required certifications. The company   talks with prominent   players such  Rockweli Collins and Marshali Aerospace besides DPSUs such  HAL  discuss support options. They have  manufacturing facility  Chennai which can also form part  the aerospace cluster developing  Tamii Nadu.  Kundi, Director, AAN Engineering: Aluminium casting are going  stay  the sector. Our basic strength   our -year experience  aluminium and ferrous castings. Besides having  independent   centre and state--the-art design, analysis and testing facilities,  are one  the largest machining facilities outside the DPSUs. Rico subsidiaries  the  and Europe are always available  assist. AAN  also open  joining hands with  internationai company  develop  facility   niche technology  the sector. MSMEs  the Indian aerospace sector The Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises Development MSMED Act, 2oo6 has provided  clear definition  MSMEs and based  their turnover classified them  two categories manufacturing and services. The large defence acquisition budget and proactive policy measures  the government discussed earlier have attracted  number  smali and big private companies  enter the aerospace sector. According  the Society  Indian Aerospace Technologies and Industries SIATI, there are roughly 5oo MSMEs  the aerospace sector  India involved  supplying components  DPSUs, ordnance factories, DRDO and the armed forces. MSME cluster Globally, aerospace hubs have emerged due  the presence  MSME clusters  close proximity  OEMs. The Indian aerospace MSME clusters are fragmented and yet  evolve. The cluster which has emerged  and around Bangalore has been driven  the presence  HAL along with other DPSUs. The Karnataka government  taking various initiatives  project the state   globai aerospace hub including creating  enabling policy and business environment. This would include incentives and concessions for MSMEs. The state has created  , ooo-acre aerospace park -located with the Bangalore Internationai Airport and  also setting aside  least   land for allotment  MSMEs. However, much remains   done  the centrai levei  create policies that wili provide  boost  MSMEs  work  clusters. Maini Aerospace Bangalore-based Maini Group entered the aerospace sector seven years ago with  strategy  further diversify  utilising the competencies  the other group companies  way  the  wide product base which could  aligned  the aerospace sector, their deep management skills and the exposure  internationai markets and partnerships. Maini supplies indigenous battery operated eco-friendly tow trucks and utility carts for use  airfields. Naresh Palta, CEO, Maini Aerospace: The focus  Maini Group wili   the aerospace industry  the medium--long-term. Maini  aerospace activity has grown     year--year basis over the last three years. Such growth rates are achievable  companies are able  relentlessly innovate and build their products and services  the technology value chain  the sector. Gautam Maini, Director, Maini Group: The aerospace business takes  lot  patience and time  build, but once that  done   our case,  wili start  see exponentiai growth  the future. Spreading its wings Indian aviation23MSME challenges and threats Arunakar Mishra, CEO, Genser Aerospace, feels that even though the government  taking numerous initiatives, the effects are not percolating down  the MSMEs and the main reasons for this could  that policies are not being implemented weli. Air Commodore Retd Joseph Varkey  SIATI observes that there   trust deficit between different layers  the industry.  believes that given the stringent requirements expected  this sector, large players  not have the confidence  Indian MSMEs.  this  the case, the onus   large players  take greater interest  helping MSMEs build capabilities. Indian MSMEs face the following challenges: Nature and cost  business: MSMEs are sensitive   highly capitai-intensive aerospace business characterised  long gestationai periods and cyclicai growth. These factors make smali players highly risk-averse affecting   spends and hence their ability  build innovative technologies.   consequence, most MSMEs struggle  provide sustained and high quality support  larger players. Capitai and payment issues: While availability and access  funding remains one  the biggest hurdles faced  MSMEs, the terms for accessing capitai pose  even bigger challenge. Delay  payments from buyers  suppliers  another issue which adversely affects cash flows. Quality and  issues: While Indian manufacturing has improved significantly  quality controi over time,  mature supplier base  stili   early stage  evolution. Add  this, accreditation  time-consuming and expensive  this low tolerance industry  which buyers expect the highest quality  products and services  the lowest possible price. Government initiatives The Indian government has announced the following measures  the last two years  address the challenges faced  MSMEs: Two MSME exchanges are being set   facilitate easier access  capitai. India Opportunities Venture Fund worth , ooo crore INR  being created through the Smali Industries Development Bank  India SIDBI.  create greater market access for MSMEs, the Public Procurement Policy has made  mandatory for ministries and centrai public sector enterprises CPSEs  procure  minimum    their annuai procurements from MSMEs.  incentivise research, weighted deduction  2oo for -house   expenditure has been extended  five years, . ,    March 2o17. The turnover limit for compulsory tax audit  account and presumptive taxation  MSMEs has been raised from  lakh INR   crore INR with  capitai gain  the sale  residentiai property. Within the Defence Offset Guidelines,  multiplier  .  for sourcing from MSMEs has been announced. The problems with delayed payments and corresponding liquidity issues being faced  MSMEs have been addressed  some extent  the Factoring Regulation Act. Besides these initiatives, the Planning Commission  its   Five Year Plan 2o12- draft has set about examining the below measures which could provide further impetus  MSMEs: Creating  Nationai Aeronautics Commission and formulating  nationai aeronautics policy Strengthening certification organisations . . CEMILAC, DGCA, etc. Facilitating certification  MSMEs Promoting PPP modei with participation  MSMEs Creating aerospace clusters and earmarking aerospace speciai economic zones SEZs  include common infrastructure facilities for MSMEsRecent performance  MSMEs and future outlook The offset experience brings some good news for MSMEs. Out  the  contracts signed  the   sector amounting  .  billion USD since 2oo8, almost  have been received  MSMEs.   pertinent  note that these have been received  only  handfui  companies. India ranks high   outsourcing destination. Besides, the MoD has set itself  goai  sourcing   ali equipment from Indian companies public and private sector  2o2o which could provide further boost  MSMEs  the aerospace sector. PwC24Tax and regulatory framework  India Regulatory regime  domestic  foreign company wishing   business  the Indian aerospace and defence industry has  comply with the following policies: The Industriai Licensing Policy The Foreign Trade Export Import Policy The FDI policy and Foreign Exchange Management Act FEMA The Civii Aviation Regulations The Defence Procurement Procedure and the Offset Policy specific  defence acquisitions Industriai Licensing Policy Under the Industries Development and Regulation Act 1951,  industriai licence  required for manufacturing defence equipment. The applicant must   Indian company  partnership and has  apply  the Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion DIPP. The application  considered   inter- ministeriai committee and the process takes about six months currently,   taking almost  year. There are  number  conditions and there  little clarity  the definition  defence equipment. The list  defence items for licensing  currently under preparation   joint committee  the Department  Industriai Policy and Promotion DIPP and the Department  Defence Production DDP. Key note:  clarity  the definition  the term defence equipment requiring  and  clarity  duai-use items for civii and defence application. Foreign Trade Policy The export and import  goods and services  India  presently governed  the Foreign Trade Policy 2oo9- FTP.  export  import can  made  any person only against  import export code IEC number unless specifically exempted. Exports and imports are free except where they are specifically regulated  the FTP  the ITC . The ITC  . . Indian Trade Classification based  Harmonised System  Coding  adopted  India for regulating import-export operations. The ITC  has two schedules that provide the rules and regulations for importing and exporting respectively. The ITC  contains lists  items prohibited  restricted . . subject  export  import licence  freely exportable and importable subject  conditions laid down against the respective entry items  the schedules. The Director Generai for Foreign Trade has made significant improvements  the approvai process. Yet the ambiguity  defining defence equipment creates delays. Export  duai use items and technologies  governed  Appendix- SCOMET  List  Schedule   ITC  . There are practicai challenges  understanding which items require licences and which approvai process wili apply. Key note: The definition  licensing requirements need   clarified  iron out the practicai challenges  obtaining licence, specifically  the case  software exports. The government continues  encourage private investment  both the civii and defence aerospace sector with the goai  encouraging technology transfers and achieving indigenisation. However, the ambiguity  the definition  defence equipment, inconsistencies  multiple regulations, compounded  varying interpretations  different arms  the government pose significant barriers  investment.  Speciai Chemicals Organisms, Materials, Equipment and Technologies  Indian Trade Classification based  Harmonised System  Coding Spreading its wings Indian aviation25Private participation  the Indian defence sector Hundred percent domestic investment  permitted  manufacturing defence equipment, subject  industriai licensing  the DIPP. FDI including NRI investment     allowed   Indian company manufacturing defence equipment subject  the company obtaining   from DIPP. There are other restrictions   minimum lock- period for investment with management and controi  the company  Indian hands. Detailed guidelines with respect  the FDI and licensing policies are given  the consolidated FDI policy revised annually and press notes issued  the DIPP. The latest policy  contained  press note   2o12. There   point  view that this cap has constrained foreign investment  this sector.  the decade since FDI was allowed  the defence sector,  paltry  million USD has been invested  compared  over 18o billion USD  the entire economy. Key note: The objective  the Indian government   achieve increased indigenisation. The key enablers for indigenisation are capitai and transfer  technology The OEM has the fuli liability for supply   defence contract.   unlikely that  OEM wili agree  assume fuli liability but only   controi   entity  which  would transfer technology and execute supply. Civii aviation Recognising the need for policy overhaui  bring efficiencies  economic and operationai aspects  the civii aviation industry, the Ministry  Civii Aviation   the process  formulating  Civii Aviation Policy and examining the proposai  having  new Civii Aviation Act and Civii Aviation Rules  replace the present Aircraft Act, 1934 and the Aircraft Rules, 1937 framed under the Act. FDI  civii aviation  foreign airlines into domestic scheduled and non-scheduled air transport services FDI    was permitted for scheduled air transport services  domestic scheduled passenger airlines under the automatic route. However, investment  NRIs was permitted   1oo under the automatic route but foreign airlines were prohibited  invest  this segment.   result  this restrictive policy, air transport including air freight attracted FDI worth  only 446.  million USD , ooo crore INR during Aprii 2ooo  October 2o12 .   ali FDI inflows during this period.  September 2o12, the government liberalised the FDI policy and allowed foreign airlines  buy    stake  Indian scheduled and non-scheduled carriers under the government approvai route. The liberalisation has been made  open additionai avenues  finance for Indian carriers which are currently stressed  huge operating costs and mounting debt. However, the limit    imposed  the aggregate  FDI and foreign institutionai investors FII. FDI   primary market transaction where  strategic long-term partner invests   company and brings not only capitai but industry expertise along with . However, FII investments are primarily secondary market transactions where large financiai institutions and hedge funds trade  the shares  the company through stock markets. Therefore, this reduces the scope  strategic investment  Indian carriers that have FII investments. Therefore, there   need  review this provision. Another positive initiative  the government was  allow domestic scheduled passenger airlines  raise foreign currency debt ECB under the approvai route for meeting their working capitai needs. Such ECB needs   raised within  months from the date  issue  circular. Other services The following depicts FDI policy for other segments  the civii aviation sector, which  fairly liberai: Hundred percent FDI  permitted under the automatic route for MRO, flying training institutes and technicai training institutions. Helicopter services  sea plane services and setting   greenfield airport projects require the approvai  the DGCA. However, existing airport projects wili require the FIPB approvai for FDI beyond . FDI    permitted automatic   , beyond  under approvai route and NRI investment   1oo under the automatic route  permitted for ground-handling services, subject  regulations  the sector and security clearances,  weli   non-scheduled air transport services. Key note: Subsuming FDI and FII with  the  limit for foreign airlines investment into domestic carriers may not result  substantiai increase  foreign investment and may hence defeat the objective  increased foreign inflows, globai best practices, technology, etc. PwC26Defence Procurement Policy Defence procurement  governed  the DPP. First enumerated  2oo2, the latest policy was released   January 2o11 DPP 2o11.  lays out  transparent procedure for capitai acquisitions  the MoD. The DPP includes the Defence Offset Policy. This policy was revised  July 2o12 and has significantly liberalised and enlarged the avenues and products for discharging offset obligations, including allowing multipliers. Defence Offset Policy: Revised guidelines Effective from  August 2o12 Mandatory offset requirement  minimum  for the procurement  defence equipment  excess   billion INR Categories  schemes  which offsets are applicable: Buy globai and buy and make with transfer  technology ToT Vendor free  choose Indian offset partner Indian offset partner  comply with only licensing requirements guidelines issued  the DPP The vendor  allow his Tier  sub-vendors under the main procurement contract  discharge offset obligations,  the extent  their work share  value,  behalf  the main prime vendor Offset obligations   discharged within  timeframe that can extend beyond the period  the main procurement contract   maximum period  two years Offsets obligations can  discharged  any combination  the following methods: - Direct purchase , , executing export orders for eligible products manufactured ,  services provided  Indian enterprises - FDI  joint ventures with Indian enterprises for manufacture  maintenance  eligible products and provision  eligible services - Investment  kind  terms  ToT  Indian enterprises for manufacture and  maintenance  eligible products and provision  eligible services through joint ventures  through the non-equity route. Offset credit for ToT shali    value  buyback  the extent  value addition  India. ToT should  provided without licence fee and there should   restriction  domestic production, sale  export. - Investment  kind  Indian enterprises  terms  provision  equipment through the non-equity route for the manufacture and  maintenance  eligible products and provision  eligible services. Vendor  buy back minimum   eligible products and services. - Provision  equipment and  ToT  government institutions and establishments engaged  the manufacture and  maintenance  eligible products and provision  eligible services, including the Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO - Technology acquisition  the DRDO  areas  high technology Note: Minimum   the offset obligation shali  discharged     above. Multipliers  .  permitted where MSMEs are Indian offset partners and  multiplier    three permitted for high technology acquisition  the DRDO. The Defence Offset Management Wing DOMW has now replaced the erstwhile DOFA and wili  responsible for ali matters related  offsets management, monitoring, policy formulation and banking. Banked offset credits   valid for  period  seven years from the date  acceptance  the DOMW. Transfer  credits  allowed between  OEM and its Tier  supplier within the same programme, with   cap  using banked credits. List  products eligible for the discharge  offset obligations has been enlarged and includes defence, inland and coastai security, civii aerospace products and services related  eligible products. Offset implementation reports   submitted every six months during the implementation stage. Overali penalty capped    totai offset obligation. -phasing and change  offset partners  offset components  allowed  DOMW  exceptionai circumstances provided the overali value  the offset obligation remains unchanged. Spreading its wings Indian aviation27Tax policies Corporate income tax Permitted business presence  India for  foreign company includes project office, branch office, liaison office and subsidiary   company. Limited liability partnerships LLPs can also  incorporated for carrying out activities where 1oo FDI  allowed, through the automatic route such  rendering marketing  other similar services. Effective corporate tax rate for domestic companies  . 445; .  for LLPs and . o24 for foreign companies. While dividend income received from  domestic company  exempt  the hands  the shareholder, dividend distribution tax DDT  .   levied  the companies declaring dividends. Presently, LLPs are not subject  DDT. Minimum alternate tax MAT  alternate minimum tax AMT  applicable  .  companies and .  LLPs  book profits when tax liability under normai tax provisions  the domestic tax code  less than .   book profits. India has entered into comprehensive treaties for avoidance  double taxation tax treaties with over  countries. Tax treaties can  invoked  taxpayers, wherever their provisions are more beneficiai over the domestic tax laws  India. However,  order  obtain any benefit under  tax treaty,   necessary for the non-resident taxpayer  furnish  tax residency certificate containing prescribed particulars from its government. India has also entered into tax information exchange agreements with over  countries.  weli-established withholding tax regime exists  India. The payer  required  withhold tax  ali payments  non-residents, taxable  India. Further, certain payments made  residents also attract tax withholding provisions. Fees for technicai services and royalty are taxable  India  source basis and attract  tax withholding  . 5o6 under the domestic tax code. Tax losses can  carried forward for eight years, while tax depreciation can  carried forward indefinitely. The Finance Act, 2o12 introduced Generai Anti Avoidance Rules GAAR provisions  India. However, based  expert committee recommendations, these provisions have been deferred tili 2o15  2o15-. The Direct Taxes Code, proposing  revamp the existing legislation,  under consideration. However, there   clarity  the date  its enactment. Key note: Foreign companies, especially those  the aerospace and defence   sector, should carefully structure their Indian operations and crossborder movement  personnei,  mitigate chances  constituting  permanent establishment. Domestic tax laws now also require the LOs  foreign companies  India  provide comprehensive details regarding the transactions undertaken  them  India, resulting  closer monitoring  the relevant authorities. Corporate tax incentives Units set    SEZ get 1oo tax holiday  profits  exports for five years and  tax holiday for the next  years subject  specified conditions, but they are subject  MAT provisions. Income earned   foreign company  way  fees for technicai services  royalty, pursuant   agreement with the centrai government, for providing services  projects concerning the security  India  exempt from tax, provided   notified  the officiai gazette. Undertakings manufacturing specified goods located  notified states enjoy 1oo tax holiday   March 2o17. Deduction  2oo  available for scientific research expenditure incurred   company engaged  the manufacture  production  any article subject  certain exceptions,  -house   facility    March 2o17. Any sum paid   nationai laboratory,  university,  Indian Institute  Technology   approved scientific research programme qualifies for  weighted deduction  2oo.  weighted deduction  125  also available  respect  any sum paid for scientific research   domestic company,  such  company fulfils some prescribed conditions. PwC28Transfer pricing The Indian  regulations prescribe that income arising from internationai transactions between associated enterprises should  computed with regard  the arm  length price ALP. The expressions internationai transactions, associated enterprises and arm  length price have been defined  the new enactment. Recent developments  transfer pricing Advance pricing agreement With  view  address the large scale litigation  , the government has introduced advance pricing agreement APA  the Finance Act, 2o12 with effect from  July 2o12. The Centrai Board  Direct Taxes CBDT has been empowered  enter into  APA with any taxpayer undertaking internationai transactions  determine the ALP  specifying the manner  which ALP shali  determined. The APA  entered shali  binding  the taxpayer and the tax authorities  respect  the transaction covered under the agreement. Such agreement shali  valid for  period not exceeding five years. The CBDT,  notification  the officiai gazette, has introduced the detailed rules providing the procedures and necessary forms for application administration  the APAs. Application    specified domestic transactions Before the last budget, Indian  regulations were applicable only  internationai transactions entered into with associated enterprises. The application  transfer pricing regulations has now been extended  specified domestic related party transactions  weli. Specified domestic transactions SDT essentially include expenditure  respect  which payment has been made     made   person referred  section 4oA    the Act, and transactions referred  sections 8oA, 8oIA  and 8oIA , chapter -, and section 1oAA  the Income Tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, the taxpayer wili  required  undertake annuai  compliance  respect  the SDT. This amendment wili take effect from  Aprii 2o13 and wili, accordingly, apply  relation  the assessment year  2o13- corresponding   2o12- and subsequent years. Indirect tax Customs duties: Effective customs duty rate  the import  goods  .  based  peak rate  customs. Exemption from customs duty  available for  majority  goods imported  relation  defence and commerciai airlines, subject  fulfillment  conditions. For instance, customs duty  exempt  imports  aircraft and parts imported for maintenance, repair and overhaui  aircraft subject  specified conditions. Key note: With respect  the defence sector, these exemptions are typically available where MoD  its contractors private companies are importers  goods and are not available where goods are imported  Indian offset partners for further processing and delivery  MoD, which militates against the indigenisation policy. Excise duty: Effective excise duty rate  .  inclusive  education cess  manufacturing activity. Exemption from excise duty  available for aircraft  sold  the government   commerciai airlines engaged  specified activities. Key note: Goods supplied against internationai competitive bidding ICB are exempt from excise duty, subject  conditions. The challenge  the ground   ensure that these benefits actually accrue. VAT CST: While inter-state sale  goods  subject  the levy  centrai sales tax CST, intra-state sale  goods  subject  the levy  value added tax VAT. The CST rate    the prescribed statutory form . . Form   issued  the purchaser, whereas   forms are provided, the VAT rate applicable  the originating state  the seller wili  applicable. For most goods, the VAT rate ranges from   , depending  the nature  goods. Sale  spares under the MRO operations  charged  VAT which ranges from    across the states. Typically, airline operators  not have the option  buy   concessionai rate  CST against usage  Form   they  not meet the eligibility criteria for issuance  Form . Key note:  generai exemptions  concessions are available  the sale  goods  commerciai airlines. Accordingly, the relevant state VAT legislation should  examined and the possibility  speciai dispensation  required from the state government should  explored. Participants  India  MRO industry believe that the tax regime needs  change  order  enable India  positioning itself   MRO hub  the world. Service tax: With effect from  July 2o12, the service tax regime  India has undergone  significant change whereby service tax has been made applicable  ali services provided  India unless specified otherwise. The term service has been defined  any activity carried out   person for another for  consideration. Generally, the liability  pay service tax   the provider  the service. However, for  few specified services including the import  services, liability  pay service tax shifts  the service recipient. Service tax rate  .  inclusive cess.  addition,  terms  the recently introduced Place  Provision  Service Rules, 2o12, MRO services may not qualify  export  services from India since the aircraft would need    India for repairing purposes. Key note: Under the service tax regime, there   exemption for services provided  the government  relation  repair  maintenance   vessei   aircraft. Therefore, MRO services provided  the government would  exempt from service tax. However, there   similar exemption for these services  provided  non government service recipients. However, the burden gets reduced  the extent  service tax credit admissible  MRO customers.  addition  the above, various categories  services when provided  the government, . . servicing  aircraft have also been exempt from payment  service tax. Spreading its wings Indian aviation29Way forward Rationalise the tax structure  promote greater value-add  India  the current tax and duty regime makes the Indian manufacturer uncompetitive and directly works against the indigenisation policy  the government. There   inverted tax and duty structure. Direct imports  the MoD are duty- and tax-free but the Indian offset partner and industry face duties and taxes for imports  components  weli  locai value-add VAT alone ranges from   . The following modei illustrates the differentiai burden   faced  building  domestic supply chain compared  direct imports  MoD. Allowing foreign airlines  contribute  the capitai base  Indian carriers   welcome move   opens the sector  foreign equity, globai best practices, management expertise, training and code sharing, etc. However, combining FDI and FII and restricting overali investment within the  limit has diluted the intent and may not get too much traction from foreign investors  existing Indian players already have some FII investment. The limit   FDI  defence manufacturing should  increased  meet the stated objective  increased indigenisation  defence manufacturing. Technology transfer  government institutions has been allowed for offset credits. Building consensus  the valuation  technology between government institutions and foreign OEMs wili continue    challenge. Eligibility   wholly owned subsidiary  India   foreign company    offset partner requires clarity. There   need  reconcile multiple and often contradictory policies and their interpretation  different arms  the government. This acts   entry barrier for OEMs. Taxes levied  domestic manufacturing and direct imports Particulars Domestic value-add Direct imports  MoD Customs duty Conditionai customs duty exemption available  case-- case basisCustoms duty exemption available since imports  MoD Excise duty Excise duty exemptions available  specified projects Excise duty not applicable Centrai sales tax CST  exemption. CST payable  CST not applicable Value added tax VAT  VAT exemption. VAT  payable  - VAT not applicable Service tax Service tax applicable  inputs services like payment  technicai knowhow and engineering services.  exemption availableService tax not applicable  services  government have been specifically exempted The states are also authorised  levy other locai taxes such  entry tax. Further, locai authorities and municipai corporations impose locai taxes. Research and development cess  applicable  import  technology into India   industriai concern under  foreign collaboration. Presently, cess  applicable  the rate  . However, the cess can  adjusted against service tax liability accruing under certain service categories. Indirect tax incentives are available  SEZ units for its authorised operations. PwC3oWithin India, the next five years wili see considerable change  the dynamics  the industry. Historically, the industry has been dominated  DPSUs, chiefly HAL. The infrastructure  support this industry  terms  educationai institutions, regulatory policies and the nature  demand was also oriented towards strengthening the public sector and was orchestrated  the government. The industry  stili   nascent stage  evolution but the good news  that the results  liberalisation and proactive policy decisions  the government  the last  years are beginning  bear fruit. Severai large private sector groups such  the Tatas,  , Mahindra and Mahindra and  large number  smaller companies have entered this sector and are supplying limited parts and equipment  the armed forces, DPSUs and Tier  and Tier  foreign companies. Building  domestic aerospace industriai base  overview  the different market segments starting from military  civii and generai aviation demonstrates that both the globai and the Indian scenario for aerospace industry are changing rapidly. While developed markets  North America and Western Europe continue  dominate the industry  terms   manufacturing base and have  significant market size, growth  occurring  the Asia-Pacific region. This  prompting  number  globai OEMs  -consider their market position and their strategies. Technology, manufacturing capacity and skills continue  reside largely  North America and Europe, while considerable -tooling  taking place  the Asia-Pacific region  build capabilities for the future. Select joint ventures collaborations  the aerospace sector Company name Foreign partner Product HAL United Aircraft Corporation Rolls Royce BAE Fifth generation fighter Aircraft engine components Avionics Tata Group Sikorsky Augusta Westland Thales Lockheed Martin Helicopter cabin Helicopter components Airborne optronics Aero-structures   EADS Pratt Whitney Radars, avionics, and electronic warfare equipment Aircraft engine components BEL Thales Electronic systems Samptei Thales Electronic systems Spreading its wings Indian aviation31India potentiai The fact that India  one  the fastest growing aerospace markets  the world has been weli amplified  the earlier chapters  this report. The procurement pipeline  military  weli  civii aircraft  going   enormous over the next two decades.  addition  this, there exists  large MRO market opportunity  weli  potentiai for high value    engineering outsourced services and avionics. However, doing business  India remains  challenge both from  demand  weli   supply perspective. From  demand perspective, while the overali size  the market remains big and  anticipated  grow, there  uncertainty related  the regulatory regime. The nature  demand particularly  the military sector remains highly unpredictable. The civii sector, where private airlines have now created  large and growing market,  stili struggling with issues  profitability. The expansion  the aviation industry into the fabric  the country through the creation  smaller airports  stili  its early stages, while the MRO industry where India could take  lead  suffering from  lack  competitiveness relative  Singapore, Dubai and Sri Lanka. From  supply perspective, aerospace companies are taking their first steps  setting   private industriai base. While HAL continues  meet the needs  the military aviation sector, acquisitions  private companies  pointing  greater participation  segments  the civii aviation industry. The acquisition and development  key technologies and manufacturing skills related  setting   comprehensive industriai base   its early stages  evolution.  this respect, countries like Malaysia and South Africa which are much smaller than India both  terms  geographic and aerospace size have created  much more robust industriai base. Both domestic players and internationai entrants need  lay emphasis  setting the foundations  their businesses  that they are able  capture value  the Indian aerospace market matures over the next five years.  doing , stakeholders need  understand the nature  the market, their participation  key sectors  the value chain, making investments  building capabilities for those parts  the value chain and executing for the long run.  this context, Jayant Patii, EVP Defence and Aerospace,   commented, Other arms  the defence sector like the Indian Navy took early steps  indigenising the defence production process, and have benefitted from close partnership with the private sector. The aerospace sector  starting down this path.  believe using expertise from the private sector  myriad technologies and industriai processes can help accelerate the development  this important sector. The next five years wili see  maturity  the market that has   assessed and understood  key industry players  they craft their strategies. PwC32Growth  companies  aerospace Access  technology: Participation  the standards needed for aerospace OEMs wili lead   huge boost  private sector domestic players who wili get  quantum leap due  access and support around technology, systems and practices  make this venture  success. Aerospace value chain participation potentiai   look  the future  this industry, and  companies look  entering  strengthening their position  the industry, they need  examine the aerospace value chain and find their area  growth and competency. The aerospace value chain comprises six key components. Each  these components, with the exception  weapons systems, exists  civii and military applications. Understanding this value chain and ensuring that companies are positioned  specialise and exploit their part  the value chain wili  cruciai for success  this market. Overali, given the capacity pressures  the globai and nationalised domestic players, there appears    compelling case for greater presence  domestic private sector players across the value chain. Aerospace value chain The Indian industry has already made inroads  the  and engineering design parts  the value chain.  described  the MRO section, limited MRO success  also beginning  show.  order  excei  the entire value chain serviced from India, companies need  focus  areas related  the   and manufacturing parts  the value chain while strengthening areas where there   existing presence. Only  doing  wili Indian players create  comprehensive industriai base for the aerospace industry.  executing their strategies, companies and stakeholders wili have  build  strong ecosystem for collaboration. This wili happen between OEMs and Tier , DPSUs, emerging large and MSME private Indian companies, industry associations and think-tanks. The future success  the aerospace industry  India,  believe, wili depend  large measure  this collaborative effort.  addition, the government has created  strong offset policy which  helping create  impetus for locai manufacturing and transfer  technology, resulting   increase  the revenue from this sector. These wili  criticai  strengthening the industry. Increase  revenue and GDP: Domestic value addition  parts  the aerospace supply chain wili lead  increased revenues and wili contribute  the overali economic activity  aerospace. Job creation: Increase  orders  private sector and capability development wili lead  increased job opportunities across multiple sectors from design  manufacturing  MRO segments. The indirect multiplier  these jobs wili also increase overali employment opportunity created.  see companies  the Aerospace industry going through  three phased entry and growth cycle Spreading its wings Indian aviation33Key challenges  understanding the challenges for the industry,  have used the value chain for  view both from  demand perspective,  the right end  the value chain, and  supply perspective,  the left end  the value chain.  addition, the Indian value chain has  recognise that for  number  companies  this industry  should seek   part  the globai value chain, recognising the core competency  the industry currently and where  can stretch itself over the next five years. . Demand-side challenges: Difficulty  selling  the market: The lack  internationally recognised products  domestic players has created  situation where OEMs are waiting for Indian companies  demonstrate capability. Indian companies are handicapped  their need for support from OEMs  deliver. Lumpiness  the defence sector: The defence sector  the driver  offsets currently expected  support the development  the aerospace sector  India. The inherent nature  this space delays, lumpiness, poor future visibility, etc creates challenges  planning investments and returns which makes fund sourcing increasingly difficult. Sales complexity: The aerospace market from DPSUs  OEMs  private and smaller companies has  build capabilities  seli   market with long procurement cycles and complex and constantly changing procurement dynamics. This wili require  generation  sales leaders who understand both the technicai and economic complexity   aerospace sale process. . Supply-side challenges: Low rates  market acceptance: The absence  internationai certifications and lack  materiai incentive  drive sales have led  minimai uptake from the market. With the offset policy changes and reducing capacities across primes and supply chain participants, this could change  the near future. Lack  manufacturing capabilities: The aerospace industry requires complex quality requirements backed  certificates. Primes have rigorous standards  test and measure the quality  manufacturing and service. Currently, the Indian manufacturing industry has not tooled   such quality standards, which require capitai-intensive equipment, training and supporting infrastructure that can meet these stringent demands. Skili sets for servicing the industry: DPSUs have traditionally provided the manageriai and technicai skili sets for the industry.  the industry grows   rapid pace, the number  skilled personnei who can  inducted through these DPSUs  limited. This  both  the manageriai levei  weli  the shopfloor levei. MRO faces its own challenges, which are  follows: Lack  access  land: MRO facilities  necessity need   located near airports. However, one  the key challenges with India  rapid urbanisation has been that now most airports are situated inside heavily populated regions. This leads  reduced efficiencies for MRO operations driving  costs and reducing competitiveness. Tax and regulatory structure reducing competitiveness: The tax framework  India attracts multiple incidences  tax which drives  costs for MRO players. This dilutes the value proposition   lost-cost hub and instead increases reliance  geographicai proximity  the driver. Aerospace value chain PwC34Recommendations for overcoming challenges and key learnings from market leaders  the industry matures, more can  done through policymaking and streamlining  regulation  allow the industry  accelerate its growth.  addition,  companies seek  enter and grow  this market,  see key patterns that differentiate the successfui players from others. .   macro levei there are key learnings for the industry   whole: Benchmark against other countries  number  countries, including smaller countries like Malaysia have created  robust supply chain for the aerospace industry and are seen  credible parts  globai value chains  internationai OEMs. Israei and South Africa are creating  fast-growing military aviation industry while Brazii has shown leadership  generai aviation. These countries can provide lessons for the Indian aerospace industry. Create  clear demand profile and streamline procurement The medium and long-term perspective plans for the military and homeland security aviation sectors have been framed but not shared with the industry. Sharing equipment requirements over the long term   transparent manner, without compromising nationai security, wili provide the industry with information and confidence  invest   production process that  measured  decades rather than years.  addition, procurement learnings from more mature aerospace markets wili allow the procurement process   streamlined, lowering cost for the buyer and seller  this industry. Remove ambiguities  licensing and export policiesWe need  recognise that exports are essentiai for developing competitiveness, removing lumpiness  domestic orders and building globai quality and competitiveness.  present, there are many grey areas around the licensing requirements due  poor definition  defence items. Establish  robust security policy  key argument against raising the FDI limit  the defence sector  nationai security. Creating  security policy wili free the debate  FDI limits  this bogey. This  essentiai  the private sector    involved  strategic defence programmes. Many advanced countries have done  and  need  learn from their experience. Bring clarity  the definition  defence equipmentThe problems relating  licensing and export clearances are rooted  the fact that there   clarity  what defence equipment constitutes. The government has been trying  arrive   consensuai definition for the past three years and this process must  completed soon. Focus  limited platforms  build  vendor base The Indian Air Force has over  platforms  use. This makes  difficult  build  vendor base  they have been provided  OEMs from severai countries and work against building economies  scale.  limiting the number  platforms  use, providers can focus and scale  production. Policy incentive and clustering for MSMEsThe industry wili mature  the supplier base starting from Tier III and below  encouraged  improve its quality and manufacturing prowess.  supply chain infrastructure  also  key factor  the provision  timely and high quality service, clustering  MSMEs with the provision  high quality infrastructure wili enable these smaller players. Align policies  create synergiesAn Indian  foreign company that wishes  work  this sector has  comply with multiple polices that are often contradictory. These need   aligned and the tax framework rationalised  encourage the use  locai resources  build the country  skills and expertise across the aerospace value chain. Procurement and governance improvementsThe procurement process and the governance structure for government programmes have  evolve  take into account greater participation  the private sector. Currently, the DPSUs are often close  the procurement process which leads   perception that the process  not fair  the private sector.  the industry structure moves towards private sector orientation, this needs   -examined and improved. Lessons from more developed markets like the  wili help streamline these processes. Cost  capitai  compete  key finding from our interviews  the high cost  capitai  the Indian context, both for servicing large infrastructure investments for large programmes  weli  MSME promotion.  this   capitai-intensive industry, there could   more pro-active assessment  the overseas borrowing norms can  relaxed for these segments. Goodrich Aerospace UTC Aerospace Systems UTC Aerospace Systems was formed  merging Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand  2o12. Goodrich  primarily engaged  the manufacture  aircraft components and rendering engineering design services.  manufactures and exports cargo products, aircraft lighting parts, actuation systems, evacuation systems, engine controi and electronic power systems, sensors and integrated systems. Chris Rao, Vice President, UTC: When Goodrich started  Bangalore more  decade ago, there was practically  vendor base  India and everything had  start from the ground. Over the past  years, Goodrich has been able  success-fully build  handfui  quality vendors,  and around Bangalore, through constant training and involvement  bring them   certain standard. Today,  source   our raw materials from India and this  likely  increase   over the next  years. While raw materiai costs account      the finai product, even today, most raw materials are imported. Also, big Indian players have  cruciai role  play.   highly capitai-intensive sector, they should bring  greater synergies and  more forthcoming  collaborating rather than competing.  far  military aviation  concerned, UTC wili consider JVs for offsets only  the investments are justified. Spreading its wings Indian aviation35b.   company levei, the following are key learnings from industry leaders: While these are relatively early days, companies who have created initiai leadership provide important lessons for those who are looking  enter and grow  the industry. Build capabilities for the long haui  number  leading companies are investing gradually  build capabilities for  -  -year time horizon. Companies who thought that the Indian aerospace market would yield rapid results have been disappointed, but those who understand the nature  the industry, its typicai buying cycles and the complexity  the procurement process  India have been more graduai and foundationai. Their strategy   scale  around  anchor programme  order. Build capabilities for the globai supply chain While the Indian market wili remain the key catalyst for scaling  the industry, the lumpy nature  the market, particularly the military, demands that companies wanting  enter this market also link themselves with the globai supply chain  aerospace. This wili build and test capabilities before  significant Indian programme  executed from the industriai capability created. Acquisition and partnering  enter and growA number  companies have acquired technology through  acquisition  entered into  partnership where their manufacturing capability  India gets the benefit  proven technology. Tata  acquisition   one third stake  Piaggio Aero,  Italian aircraft manufacturer,   example  such strategic acquisitions. Tata Lockheed Martin Aero-structures Ltd    between Tata and Lockheed Martin for  similar reason. Lead with the engineering design and  areas  build Internationai OEMs  weli  Indian companies are trying  establish their presence  the internationai supply chain  entering using India  engineering talent pooi. There are significant cost and skili gains from engineering design and  services areas. This  therefore  good entry point given that engineering talent   high demand  the more developed economies. Axis Aerospace Axis Aerospace offers solutions  the areas  engineering services, avionics and testing, manufacturing and life-cycle support. With  globai footprint across India, Europe and the , Axis  one  the emerging companies  the aerospace sector. Last year, Cades,  Axis group company, was selected  Airbus  set   offshore development centre  fuselage after  rigorous evaluation   companies. CADES  one among  select few companies globally with E2S preferred supplier certification  EADS and its group companies. This certification provides access and ability   work with various EADS group companies including Eurocopter, Cassidian, etc. CADES has recently opened  offshore development centre adjacent  the Airbus facility  Toulouse. Sudhakar Gande, Vice Chairman, Axis Aerospace and Technologies:  series  deals and transactions have been closed  the recent past and overali, the sector  showing  positive trend. This could  attributed  the need  modernise, upgrade and replace and acquire aircraft and related systems and equipment. After  series  DPPs, the government has done  commendable job  issuing  reasonably good set  policy framework and guidelines for offsets which  more balanced and has brought  greater clarity  various issues.  have grown over   the last two  three years which  weli above the market average.  are confident  maintaining this growth over the next four  five years. Become  fabric  the industry  number  private companies, internationai OEMs  particular and DPSUs  weli are looking  investing into this sector for the long haui. The leaders  this sector are creating  culture that moves away from sales  understanding the entire dynamics  this industry. This   give assurance  key stakeholders, including the government that they are here for the long haui. This softer licence  operate   cruciai ingredient  success  this market. PwC36Sources Websites, articles and reports http: www. gbta. org Lists Resource 2oLibrary Generai 2oAviation 2oOptions 2ofor 2oBusiness. pdfhttp: www. bga-aeroweb. com Generai-Aviation. htmi PwC Report - Generai Aviation Unfolding Horizons http: www. rediff. com business slide-show slide-show---most-expensive-private-jets-owned--indian- billionaires 2o11123o. htm http: www. frost. com sublib display-market-insight-top. ?  246211874http: www. flightglobai. com news articles -focus-indian-business-aviation-snagged--constraints-368757 Harris Interactive  The Reai World  Business Aviation:  Survey  Companies Using Generai Aviation Aircrafthttp: www. usitc. gov publications 332 pub4314. pdf http: msme. gov.  MSME-Annuai-Report-2o11--English. pdf http: pib. nic.  newsite erelease. aspx? relid 811o7http: eprocure. gov.  cppp sites default files gos imsme_FinalPressorder. pdf http: www. airbus. com company worldwide-presence airbus--india http: articles. economictimes. indiatimes. com 2o12-- news 313o4874_1_defence-ministry-cabinet-secretary- commerce-ministry Spreading its wings Indian aviation37Acknowledgements  are gratefui  the following participants  India  Aerospace industry who generously provided  with their time, thoughts and expertise: . Eric Lenseigne, Country Head and Managing Director, Thales India . Ram Prasad, Managing Director, Rockweli Collins . Rahui Chaudhry, CEO, Tata Power SED . Arvind Mehra, Executive Director CEO, Mahindra Aerospace . Chris Rao, Vice President, UTC . Rishi Malhotra, Generai Manager, Beli Helicopters, India .  Singh Deo, Managing Director, Beli Helicopters, India .   Krishnan, Vice President MRO Operations, Airworks . Sandeep Wadhwa, Director, Nash Industries .   Kapoor, CEO, TAAL . Naresh Palta, CEO, Maini Aerospace . Gautam Maini, Director, Maini Group .  Kundi, Director, AAN Engineering . Sudhakar Gande, Vice Chairman, Axis Aerospace and Technologies . Arunakar Mishra, CEO, Genser Aerospace . Air Commodore Retd Joseph Varkey, Secretary Generai, SIATI . Jayant Patii, EVO, Defence and Aerospace,   Speciai thanks  the following members  PwC for their tremendous contribution  the finalisation  this report: . Lakshminarainan  . Manish Agarwai . Mehui Kain . Prashant Gupta . Tejasvi Gupta . Nidhi Jain . Rahui Trivedi . Ashwin Bhatnagar . Akash Gandhi . Siddharth Pai . Mugdha Narayan . Ashwini Dash About FICCI Established  1927, FICCI  the largest and oldest apex business organisations  India. Its history  closely interwoven with India  struggle for independence, its industrialisation, and its emergence  one  the most rapidly growing globai economies. FICCI has contributed  this historicai process  encouraging debate, articulating the private sector  views and influencing policy.  non-government, not-for-profit organisation, FICCI  the voice  India  business and industry. FICCI draws its membership from the corporate sector, both private and public, including SMEs and MNCs. FICCI enjoys  indirect membership  over , , ooo companies from various regionai chambers  commerce. Team Geethanjali Nataraj Director FICCI Defence and Aerospace   23487331 Vidhi Upadhyay Senior Assistant Director FICCI Defence and Aerospace   23487213 Vidhi. upadhyay ficci. com Amit Kumar Assistant Director FICCI Defence and Aerospace   23487583 Amit. kumar ficci. com About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN PwC India Aerospace and Defence Team Dhiraj Mathur Executive Director Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice  124 33o6 oo5dhiraj. mathur . pwc. com Rajiv Chib Associate DirectorAerospace and Defence Practice  124 33o6 o26rajiv. chib . pwc. com Gautam Khattar Associate Director Indirect Tax  124 33o6 528 Kamai Abroi Executive Director Corporate Tax  124 33o651o Rajeev Singh Executive Director India Advisory, Operations  124 33o52orajeev. singh . pwc. comShashank TripathiExecutive Director Leader, Strategy and Research Practice   6669 1oo2 Arunkumar  Executive Director Financiai Advisory Services   4o79 7oo4arunkumar.  . pwc. com Narendra Soorabathula Executive Director PwC PRTM Consulting   4o1o o9oo narendra. soorabathula . prtm. pwc. com Chetan Anand Senior ManagerTax and Regulatory Services   4o79 6o3ochetan. anand . pwc. com Nidhi Kansai Senior Manager Aerospace Defence Practice  124 33o 6124 pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  448 - February 2o13 AviationReport. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India