Title: Raising the bar: A benchmarking study of organisational structures in manufacturing companies
Date Published: 2013-10-15 00:53:57-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_benchmarking-study-of-organisational-structures-in-manufacturing-companies.pdf
Word Count: 1853
Sentence Count: 124
Average Sentence Length: 22.71

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
structure: 43
companies: 27
functions: 24
strategy: 22
pwc: 20
organisation: 19
within: 19
levels: 19
manufacturing: 16
decision: 15
organisationai: 14
structures: 14
sector: 14
raising: 13
bar: 13
information: 13
growth: 12
reporting: 12
rights: 11
india: 11

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Raising the bar  benchmarking study  organisationai structures  manufacturing companies www. pwc.  September 2o13 Introduction  Participant demographics  About the Indian manufacturing sector  Business focus and structurai challenges  Structure benchmark analysis p12 Benchmark  structurai characteristics p17 Structure and attrition p19 Conclusion p2o  PwCIntroductiono1  strategy and structure   often said that the success   organisation achieving its goals largely depends  whether its internai structure  geared towards its strategy. Processes, technology, people and culture are sine qua non for predicting the success  the company. The right people with the appropriate responsibilities affirm the achievements  any organisation. Since the opening-  the Indian economy, the manufacturing sector has seen iterative shifts  the way   organised and delivers  the marketplace. Reorganising  organisation  structure  order  exploit the advantages  geography and establishing  organisation-levei strategy has played  key role  aiding the achievement  organisationai objectives. Our report reiterates through its findings the importance  marrying organisationai structure with strategy, for sustained growth and effectiveness. Eighty per cent  companies reported that they were organised either  function   product division with function within each division. Most companies had four  five reporting levels.  manufacturing companies, the management kept  tight rein over manpower. While  majority  the participants indicated that the structure had the right decision-making spread,  reported that the decision rights were not appropriately located within the structure. Fifty per cent  organisations reported that functions were further organised  sub-functions, while  reported that within  function, the work was organised  the product division. Structure type within  organisation Structure type within  function Number  reporting levels Decision making Most  the surveyed companies had  functionai structure with four  five reporting levels. There was scope for improvement with decision rights within the structure. Participants felt that structurai effectiveness can  improved  having appropriate and weli- defined decision rights across the structure. Snapshots Raising the bar 3Fifty per cent  the polled companies were not entirely confident   alignment  the structure  the strategy. The main barrier  strategy implementation reported    the companies was that employees often lacked the skills necessary  carry out their responsibilities. Fifty-eight per cent  companies mentioned that organisationai communication was weak. Twenty-five per cent  the companies were unsure whether their structures facilitated effective channels  information flow  decision-makers within the structure. Structure type within  organisation Structure type within  function Number  reporting levels Decision makingApart from decision rights, organisations indicated that they were not completely confident  the alignment  their structure  the organisationai strategy, possibly because  the following reasons: Inadequate information flow Lack  desired levei  skili Lack  clarity  strategy, structure and roles Organisation structures are fundamentai  translating business strategy into action Effective structures can  defined  the basis  certain parameters Roles and responsibilities  ali levelStructure Roles and responsibilitie  Job design Skillsand behavioursMeasures and rewards Work group designDecision rights Authority levels and accountabilitiesReporting relationships, levels and span  controi Defining the required skili sets and behavioursDefining how units  teams wili work together, encompassing communication and culturai issues Measuring the performance  people, groups and departmentsQualifications, experience  skills requirements and key responsibilities  PwCOrganisations need  gradually navigate their way towards adopting structures that best meet their business requirements Bureaucracy within the senior management team Matrix organisation Project organisationWhat  the optimum structure and how  navigate? Rigid bureaucracy? ? ? ? Bureaucracy within project teams and task forces Source: Morgan, . ImaginationStructures supporting the business modei are criticai  marketplace success Most companies predominantly reported features across either  both these structures Bureaucracy within the senior management team Bureaucracy within project teams and task forces While the appropriateness   structure depends  many factors,   dynamic business environment,   imperative that the structure enables innovation and decision-making   much higher speed than ever before. This  turn requires that the structure, people and performance  aligned with each other. The structure  project teams and task forces depicted  the graphicai representation, facilitates  more innovative and collaborative working style, but may  less efficient when compared  the structure   senior management team driving ownership and delivery  processes. Raising the bar 5Participant demographicso2 Distribution  sub-industry Size  companies revenue crore INR Mining, iron and steelPaper Cement ChemicalOii and gas Elec and electronics Auto and auto ancillary Machinery and engg 1oooo crore INR and above 5ooo-1oooo crore INR 25oo-5ooo crore INR 1ooo-25oo crore INR 5oo-1ooo crore INR 25o-5oo crore INR Less than 25o  PwCSize  companies fuli-time employees Position  the organisation  single business headquartered  India  SBU   group  organisation  organisation   holding company1oooo and above 5ooo-1oooo 25oo-5ooo 1ooo-25oo 5oo-1ooo 25o-5oo Less than 25o Raising the bar  Achieving  balanced and inclusive macroeconomic growth  vitai for India  order  emerge   stable globai economic powerhouse. The role  the manufacturing sector  providing the necessary balance and inclusive character  India  macroeconomic growth  undisputed. Manufacturing  increasingly becoming  knowledge and  intensive sector today. Players within the sector have developed capabilities helping them build highly unique core competencies  order  define their own growth stories.  must also  stated that growth and diversification  the Indian manufacturing sector  not  result  any policy initiative but because  the conditions  the ground that globai players are using  their advantage. Driven   robust pick  domestic orders and strengthening  internationai demand, India  manufacturing sector registered moderate growth  February 2o13. The HSBC India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index PMI,  measure  factory production, stood  .   February 2o13,  from .   the previous month, indicating  improvement  the overali health  the sector.  the sector evolves,  wili  imperative for players  maximise the value associated with their investments made across strategic priorities  building  set  distinctive capabilities for themselves. Skili-building wili have   the core ingredient  any recipe,  order  hone the competitiveness  players. The second ingredient being innovation. Organisations wili need  find ways  define and develop capabilities  they take calculated risks and innovate along their growth trajectories. About the Indian manufacturing sector   PwCPartnering  create responsive relationships The Indian manufacturing environment  influenced   big way  various factors. Given the business environment and challenges that are unique  the sector, the  function wili have  relook  its role   moves away from  reacting   responsive partnership role. Source: HSBC Purchasing Managers Index PMI for Manufacturing CompaniesReact:  act after  event has occurred Respond:  anticipate and act before  event occursFractionai increase  productionSharp fali  the PMI Accumulation  pre and post production inventories Power cuts and poor vendor performance Fractionai increase  labour force Human resource implications  enablers for effective organisation structures Imperatives for Indian  leader sPowering the growth agenda Facilitating  culturai shift Securing the leadership pipelin  Championing operationai efficienciesManaging the environment Raising the bar 9Organic growth with  predominant focus  product development  the key focus for manufacturing companies. Consistent with the current conditions, companies predominantly want  gain  strong foothold  their home ground before venturing out. Focus areas for growthBusinesses can build its focus  aligning strategy with structureBusiness focus and structurai challenges  Organic growth  existing domestic markets New product and service development Organic growth  exisiting foreign marketsNew  , joint ventures and strategic alliances New operations  foreign markets  PwCHowever, they must first address the barriers  strategy implementation What are the barriers  strategy implementation  your organisation?  your structure aligned  strategy?      About half the companies polled were not entirely confident  the alignment  the structure  the strategy. Gaps  the alignment  strategy  structure have been reported   due  the lack  information flow and lack decision rights  the right positions and right levels.  your structure aligned  strategy? Employees sometimes lack the skills  clearly carry out the responsibilities The organisationai communication between levels and functions  weak Projects and teams lose sight  the strategy while purs uing their goals The organisationai budgets and plans are not linked  the strategy Employees are not convinced  the strategyDoes not support and  not aligned Very low support and alignment Supports and  partially aligned Supports and  fully aligned Raising the bar  Availability  desired talent tops the list   predominant barrier Cross-functionai communication and lack  relevant cascade  goals are other barriers that have been cited  strong leadership team, who effectively communicates the vision, strategy, structure roles and responsibilities and performance long with robust hiring and development mechanisms wili clear much  the barriers  strategy implementation. Sixty-five per cent  companies were unsure about the information flow, but however leaned   the side  optimism.  third  the companies polled were uncertain  the efficacy  the existing distribution  decision rights with individuals across the organisation. Lack   clear information flow  indicative   dire need for  more facilitative organisationai structure, leading  criticai information gaps. Lack  clarity  decision rights poses  key barrier  strategy implementation. Structured hierarchies with ready access  information for decision making  key  the working  this sector. Does your current structure support the right information flow  the people making the decisions? Are decision rights appropriately distributed within the structure?      Definitely yes Probably yes May  Probably not Definitely notThe quality  business outcomes hinges upon the quality  decisions taken Not  ali Yes,  some  the functions Yes,  most  the functions Yes, across the organization  PwCIntegrating cornerstones  the structure  criticai for  competitive advantage Integrating cornerstones  the structure  criticai for  competitive advantage. Organisationai structuresFunctionai grouping Effective communication Dynamic response tim eGoai achievement Structures  the manufacturing sector are typically defined along different production lines. Ali survey respondents were  the opinion that structures designed along production lines ensured the following: Functionai specialisation Reai-time communication Response generation through standard operating procedures Hierarchicai decision-making Structure benchmark analysis  Raising the bar  Robust structures bring operationai efficiencies and ensure profitable growth Functionai  product divisionai structures were found   the most common way  grouping employees  the manufacturing sector. This  because they ensured economies  scale. Within the product divisionai structures, organisations grouped work  function. Traditionally, functionai  product-divisionai organisations are hierarchicai  nature, with some form  line management. Such  structure makes room for the following: Allows for economies  scale, -depth skili development  specialisation Involves high coordination and  fairly high degree  centralisation  decision making Works best with stable markets, narrow product lines, and weli-understood customer requirementsWhat kind   organisationai structure has your organisation adopted? Market divisionai Geographic divisionai FunctionalProcess Matrix Product divisionai  PwC  they embed key organisationai functions for  enhanced product delivery. . . Predominantly present functions Seventy per cent and above companies polled the following functions  being present  partially outsourcedScarcely present functions Less than   the companies polled the following functions  being present  partially outsourced: Moderately prevalent functions Thirty  seventy per cent  companies polled the following functions  being present  partially outsourced: Companies combine functions  suit their context. Raising the bar 15Support organisationai decision-making The operating environment  the business  industry largely determines the extent  centralisation  decision making. Promotions media  Brand and media  Legai  Public relations    Customer service centres and cali centres66 Innovation centre centre  excellence66 Technicai service  Research and development  Brand and advertising  Sales  Maintenance  Sales and marketing  Finance and admin  ,   Marketing  Customer service and CRM   and admin  Finance  Admin  Technicai audit  Engineering  Marketing  Finance and accounts  Production   and admin  Procurement  Logistics and supply chain  Planning  Security  Top  centralised functions Top  decentralised functionsTop  partially centralised functions Most functions that were centralised were the support functions indicating that organisations desire  have common support processes for financiai efficiency and common services. Functions that were decentralised were adopted  order  meet the requirements  proximity  the functions customers that were geographically  divisionally structured. Functions that were partially centralised were adopted  order  meet the requirements  proximity  the functions customers  provide localised service with  strong back- end centralised team.  PwCOperationai efficiencies may also  built  outsourcing  functions  glimpse  the outsourced sub-functions amongst the survey respondents. Fabrication Loading  unloading Part production Engineering design Test certifications Low-value drawing jobs Medicai Payroli House-keeping Time office Catering  canteen Security and gardening Front-line sales teams Retaii sales Field operations Sales agents  outsourced rolls  services Network and hardware Maintenance Application development SAP supportProduction Sales and marketingHR and administration Outsourcing,  manufacturing  normally resorted  with the aim  the following: Reducing and controlling operating costs Compensating for the dearth   unavailability  internai resources Raising the bar 17Reporting levels within organisations impact the line  sight        8Percentage  companies that have one levei  reporting Percentage  companies that have three levels  reporting Percentage  companies that have two levels  reporting Percentage  companies that have four levels  reporting Benchmark  structurai characteristics  Finance and legai ITCustomer services Sales and marketingHR and admin SupportBranding and promotion Procurement and logistics Production  PwC Almost ali functions showed  even distribution between two, three and four reporting levels below the head  the organisation the CEO that , including the levei  the CEO, the most prevalent number  levels were three, four  five. Organisations having two  less reporting levels need  evaluate  their structure  efficient and not overburdening its employees, while those with more than five levels  reporting may have  evaluate the redundancy  levels, which may  causing duplication  work, bureaucracy and delay  decision-making. Raising the bar  There was  definitive cor-relation between the type  organisation structures and the levels  attrition within organisations. However, the generai trend  attrition  seen  hover around the eight per cent mark. Thirty-eight per cent  companies reported  attrition   and above, with the generai trend  attrition being  and above. Structure and attrition are mutually exclusive  each otherStructure and attrition   and above - - - - - -  PwC Conclusion  Organisation structure   fundamentai area that can  leveraged   competitive advantage  aligning  with the strategy. Structure with appropriate decision-making spread promotes  healthy organisation. Companies can become structurally more efficient  centralising  decentralising appropriate functions  sub-functions. Structures are not just organisation charts. They must consider multiple elements such  work groups, roles, responsibilities, decision rights and support key organisationai processes. Raising the bar 21For the purpose  this report, functions have been broadly grouped under related super-functions  aid  effective analysis Production Production planningQuality assuranceTestingQA and QTMaintenancePlanning and engineering Research and development Innovation centre  centre  excellenceBusiness development Marketing, salesSales and marketing  and networksTechnicai servicesAudit, customer service, CRM, customer service centres and cali centres Finance Accounts Finance and Accounts Finance and AdminLegalhuman resources, admin,  admin, facilities, security Employee and health safetyProduction SupportSales and marketing Information technologyCustomer Services Finance and legalHR and adminAppendix  PwCReporting levels and bands Grades reporting into the same role have been taken  common levei Raising the bar 23About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcAbout People and change With  pan-India network,  assist clients  improving the performance  ali aspects  their human resource function such  performance management system, organisationai design, job evaluation and banding, rewards, competencies, vision and values, culture, employee engagement, change, talent management and development and function diagnostics.  have worked extensively with clients across different sectors, industries and borders.  also possess deep understanding  the country  business environment. Contacts Padmaja Alagnandan  , Executive DirectorMobile:  98867247o4Emaii: padmaja. alagnandan . pwc. com Gangadhar Mutathi Managing ConsultantMobile:  982oo54146Emaii: gangadhar. mutathi . pwc. com Trevor Mark Fernandes Senior ConsultantMobile:  8879974o4oEmaii: trevor. fernandes . pwc. com www. pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - July 2o13 Raising the bar. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India