Title: pwc_smart-governance-and-technology
Date Published: 2013-11-13 21:59:11+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_smart-governance-and-technology.pdf
Word Count: 8163
Sentence Count: 477
Average Sentence Length: 25.79

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
government: 158
architecture: 120
services: 70
process: 66
technology: 65
ict: 53
wili: 52
weli: 52
information: 48
management: 44
governments: 42
processes: 42
order: 42
service: 41
across: 40
delivery: 40
governance: 38
pwc: 38
business: 37
modei: 36

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Smart governance and technology www. pwc.  PwC2  gives  immense pleasure  present the first edition  the Smart governance and technology publication from the desks  our government technology consultants. The government technology practice  PwC India constantly strives  creating  unique value proposition for the government sector  marrying our technology implementation capabilities with our understanding  how governments operate. This publication  our attempt  delineate the importance  technology  any and every step taken towards achieving good governance  the public sector.   optimistic that  the coming years, this publication wili garner greater participation, include more technology disciplines and become  benchmark within the PwC network. Within the technology consulting practice  PwC India,  endeavour  assist locai governments  South Asia  adapt  the ever-changing technology trends, which are revolutionising the channels through which governments across nations interact with their citizens and businesses. Our association with the public sector, which had commenced  couple  decades back  strategy and policy levei advisors, has been augmented manifold over the years  our technology implementation skills. Today,  are trusted advisors  governments  different levels, starting from the centrai governments  India, Nepai and Bhutan, the Indian state governments  West Bengai, Assam, Arunachai Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, etc. locai governments  weli  bodies such  the Kolkata Municipai Corporation managing the municipai affairs   population exceeding six million and the Kolkata Urban Services For the Poor governing ali the non-municipai urban locai bodies  the state with assistance from the Department for Internationai Development,  implementing and managing complex technology solutions for automating core business processes and creating unique values. The expertise  providing technology solutions for resolving multifarious government issues, accumulated from this longstanding association, has equipped our Technology Centre  Excellence  assist our colleagues within the network  executing similar transformationai engagements  territories such  Jamaica, Sri Lanka, Australia and  . This publication elucidates our points  view  technology-driven government transformation gathered from our experience  partnering with the public sector  its transformationai journey towards building  smart government. Debdas Sen Partner and Technology Consulting Leader Arunava Mitra Managing Consultant and Government Technology CoE LeaderPradip Bhowmick Partner and Government Technology Leader Our government technology practice has been working closely with the state and centrai governments  India and those  neighbouring countries over the last decade.  have been fortunate  partnering with various state governments  India  pioneering ICT initiatives  the country aimed  delivering  the citizen promise.  countries such  Nepai, Bhutan and Sri Lanka, our association with the governments has started with virtually the birth  -governance  the respective nations. Through this publication,  have tried  showcase  our experience  working with these government bodies,   bid  demystify the latest technology trends and initiatives being adopted  governments across countries.  have also incorporated few perspectives from decision makers among our public sector clients across varying geographies  foster  better understanding  the adoption  these trends and the values they bring  the table.  sincerely hope that this publication wili aid you  conducting insightfui discussions with your clients. Smart governance and technology3 Technology  key pillar  nationai governance PwC India has been the implementation partner  the Royai Government  Bhutan RGoB since the last two years, automating more than 1oo government  weli  citizen services across eight ministries  the RGoB. Phuntsho Tobgay, Director, Department  Information Technology and Telecom, RGoB shares his perspective  the pivotai role  technology  Bhutan  overali governance, with Sayan Basu, senior consultant from PwC India  technology consulting teamPradip Bhowmick Partner and Government Technology Leader PwC4 PwC India: Kindly elaborate  the technologicai initiatives that have been undertaken  Bhutan  recent times. Tobgay:  elaborated  the 1oth Five Year Plan  Bhutan, the primary focus  the government has been ICT infrastructure development  order  facilitate  effective dissemination  G2C services. Among the flagship technology initiatives undertaken  the government  the recent past, the establishment  the Nationai Fibre Optic Network connecting the  Dzonkhags districts  the country deserves speciai mention. Community centres have been established  each  the 2o5 Gewogs blocks for increasing citizen access  such services. The Nationai  Park has been constructed  Thimphu  order  house  shared Technology Centre and Data Centre along with  Centre  Incubation for nurturing new ideas  weli  promoting innovation. From  policy perspective, the government has recently completed the formulation  the Nationai -Governance Master Plan and design  the -Government Interoperability standards, and the ICT Management Framework. Four centralised data hubs wili  created for consolidating nationwide information  citizenship, land ownership, businesses and vehicles. The -Governance councii, comprising the committee  secretaries and -Governance review committees, consisting  nominated representatives from the Gross Nationai Happiness Commission, the Department  Finance, etc. have been set-  order  monitor and review ali ongoing ICT initiatives  the country.  the area  capacity development, the government has already undertaken its ambitious Chipen Rigpei project which has  set-  around 168 ICT labs across different schools  the country, and has already trained around , ooo people  basic  enablement curriculums. PwC: Since decades, Bhutan has been the prime advocate  monitoring the gross nationai happiness GNH index  the context  good governance. What has been the impact  technology  improving the GNH index  the country? Tobgay: Education and health are two overarching pillars which the GNH index  the RGoB lay significant emphasis. Consequently, the ICT policies  the government have also been aligned along these two verticals. Bhutan has drawn inspiration from ICT practices and governance models followed  the Scandinavian countries, which also manifest  high nationai happiness index. The first  park  the country has been constructed with the target  creating , ooo plus employment opportunities within Bhutan. This park has been erected with the holistic objective  creating  ecosystem  entrepreneurship within Bhutan.   steadily becoming  site for garnering new ideas  weli  encouraging innovation among the youth  the country. Recent statistics reveai that out  the entire population trained   and -enabled services,  are retained within the  industry, while the remaining  seek employment opportunities  diverse industries such  hospitality, tourism, civii sector, etc. This demonstrates the contribution    improving citizen employability and the alignment   with the GNH principle  increasing citizen satisfaction. Another important pillar  the GNH index  strengthening community vitality. Community centres that have primarily been set- across the country with the objective  delivering government  citizen services  the citizens   efficient manner, also have  place, learning facilities for imparting diverse skills among these citizens. These learning facilities provide  interactive platform for  huge population  citizens, and are therefore increasing community fraternity. Phuntsho Tobgay Director, Department  Information Technology and Telecom, Royai Government  Bhutan Smart governance and technology5 PwC India: Emerging technologies such  cloud computing, mobility, software  service, etc. are redefining conventionai technology channels. What  your take  the same, and how  Bhutan poised  embrace such technologies  the coming future? Tobgay: With the completion  the Nationai Data Centre  the Thimphu Tech Park, Bhutan wili    perfect position  explore the potentiai  emerging technologies. Cloud computing   foremost priority  the upcoming ICT plans  the government. Erection   government cloud wili undoubtedly help  the consolidation   assets  weli  lowering the totai costs  ownership. PwC India: What are the roadblocks that the government has encountered during the implementation  such initiatives? What are the corrective measures being adopted  order  counter such challenges? Tobgay:  the context  public service delivery within Bhutan, areas such  communication and transport have traditionally posed challenges. Bhutan   country with  rugged mountainous terrain and hence, connectivity with remote locations has always been difficult.  order  ensure proliferation  G2C services across the nation, the government has been laying speciai emphasis  telecommunication network infrastructure. The recently undertaken Nationai Broadband Master Plan project coupled with the Thimphu Wide Area Network implementation has significantly contributed towards mitigating the challenges pertaining  connectivity.  order  minimise over dependency  commerciai telecom operators, the government has made direct investments  nationalising the Fibre Optic Network. Another roadblock  the context  successfui G2C service delivery was the lack  citizen awareness and confidence  accessing online G2C services. Towards this, the government has undertaken severai citizen awareness  weli  capacity development initiatives which have eventually ensured  exponentiai increase  citizen awareness and acceptance. The department  Information Technology and Telecom  currently planning  engage with the Bhutan ICT and Training Association   attempt  explore other avenues  increasing citizen engagement. Getting  right  the first timeArchitecture  the right direction FOSS  COTS  modelling Enhancing efficiency  operationsDigitai secretariat: Strategising adoption Inclusive growth Harvesting technology for the Indian farmerWe derived following themes  important agendas  the -Governance mission for  smart government. PwC6 -Government: Architecture  the right direction Smart governance and technology7Why  architecture important  -Government transformation? Governments, both state and centrai, seek  support growth and improve competitiveness, and strengthen their performance within the globai economy through improved governance, sector modernisation, and enhanced regionai integration. Lack  proper architectures, interoperability frameworks and -Government standards may  deterrents  achieving harmonised enterprise architectures, interoperability frameworks and  -Government standard framework across systems  weli  services provided  ministeriai departments and agencies  other governmentai departments and the citizens. The objective  various governments has always been  promote the efficiency, quality, and transparency  public services through the delivery  regionally integrated -government applications that take advantage  economies  scale. Only  strong architecturai blueprint   industry standard foundation can pave the path for the implementation  harmonised regionai -Government frameworks and applications that are interoperable and deployable for users across regions. Such applications are expected  produce time and cost savings for governments, businesses, private citizens  weli  ensure  greater quality  service provision, including increased transparency for users and the public  generai. Being the provider for G2C, G2G and G2B services, remote infrastructure services  weli  business process outsourcing services, governments have been investing  multiple core business applications for various services over the last couple  years. This leads  complex conglomerates  tightly coupled disparate applications interfacing through point--point communication  heterogeneous platforms which made  difficult  manage, integrate, scale-, and interoperate, thereby reducing operationai efficiency. Thus, there   strong need for  business-  alignment through simplified and standardised enterprise architecture  weli   governance modei that wili support rapid growth and management  systems, add tangible value  processes  which the government wili operate with lower totai cost  ownership TCO and higher return  investment ROI. Governments have adapted the -Government master plans with the objective  leveraging the fuli potentiai  information and communication technology ICT    improve the efficiency  weli  the capability  government processes and services, with  specific focus  -Services that wili enable increased citizen participation and attempt  create  open, transparent environment, through the integration  different government information systems and services.  realise this objective, the government enterprise architecture  essentiai  order  deliver  common integrated interoperability platform  service delivery gateway for information exchange. What are the problems  -Government  not architected  the right way?  recent times, enterprise architecture programmes have gained much attention within the government  particular and the public sector  generai,  the provider  collaborative and comprehensive ICT designing, planning  weli  managing processes for -Government transformations    enable  sustainable connected whole-- government modei. Enterprise architecture enables the translation  the -Government vision  weli  strategies into effective transformation change  the strategic government-wide  weli  the segment levei such  ministries, department, agencies  defining common, consistent and cohesive architectures for the whole- -government  deliver these -Services. Current pain areas How  helps  delivering value Mostly manuai processes with low levei  service automation This leads  high process turnaround time for end--end processing  government services Facilitates the transformation  current government processes and services  end- -end streamlined automated processes, with standardised reusable citizen-centric services, thereby reducing process turnaround time Fragmented and redundant ICT systems and technologies with ministry, departments and agencies MDAs working  silos driving their own ICT initiatives This leads  higher complexity, higher TCO, and  lack  interoperability Consolidates and rationalises  fragmented redundant ICT systems, technologies  weli  data structure for cost reduction, reduced complexity and better interoperability  ICT systems across MDAs Lack  government-wide consistent enterprise  policies, principles, reference models and standards with MDAs adopting their own disparate standards Recommends and maintains government-wide technicai standards, architecture principles, reference models and templates  order  facilitate the design, implementation  weli  the delivery  ICT capability   consistent, standardised, cost-effective and timely manner Limited interconnection and collaboration across MDAs    share government data  reai-time mode Improves the agility and interoperability with reai-time information exchange across MDAs, with enhanced transparency, better - ordination and communication -hoc reactive mode  decision making  ICT investments with limited investments  ICT Provides  basis for planned decision making  ICT investments Lack  centralised governance  achieve the follo wing: -Plan and deliver  initiatives that leads  delay  ICT projects -Maintain and sustain  standards Centralised architecture governance modei  order  ensure better architecture planning, decision making and compliance  projects with enterprise standards Improved efficiency and turnaround time for ICT project roli-out   thus one  the criticai success factors for effective -Government transformation. PwC8What initiatives are other governments undertaking? Across the world there has been  wide scale adoption  the Government Enterprise Architecture GEA and appreciations thereof  the values delivered. The objective  these initiatives has been  design, develop, deploy and use the GEA and -Government Interoperability Framework -GIF for better strategies, processes, plans, structures, technologies and systems across the government. The GEA and -GIF wili  used  better tailor information systems for government agencies  order  achieve key objectives  weli  outcomes, and thereby achieve increased interoperability, better asset management, reduced risk and lower operationai cost. Governments  North America and Europe had already taken the right steps  establishing the  programme for eGovernment transformation, though they are  various stages   maturity.  the , the  Information Technology Management Reform Act  1996, often referred   the Clinger- Cohen Act, made  mandatory for ali 116  federai departments  weli  agencies  develop and use  for  investment planning and decision making. Some  the benefits realised includes the following: -The United States Agency for Internationai Development has reported cost savings  the tune  .  million USD and cost avoidance  .  million USD   result  transitioning disparate human resource systems   human resource shared services centre, using enterprise architecture.  reported savings  the tune  .  million USD from moving its -maii service   cloud-based solution recommended  the  programme. -The  Department  Health and Human Service has been able  reuse   its totai governmentai services. -The  Department  Education reports that development, modernisation, and enhancement funding within the  portfolio increased from   the totai  spending  fiscai year 2o11,    the totai  spending  fiscai year 2o12, through the use  the department  architecture segment modernisation planning process. -The  Department  Treasury that focussed  reducing duplication through its data centre consolidation initiative has reported  reduction  , 283  the number  servers,  increase from     operating systems that were virtualised, and  reduction  the data centre square footage  , 896 between 2o1o and 2o11. The Australian government has established the Australian Government Programme with the objective  assist  the delivery   consistent and cohesive service  its citizens, and support  cost-effective delivery  ICT services  the government. New Zealand   diligently working towards  connected government through the definition  New Zealand Federai Enterprise Architecture FEA derived from the  Federai Enterprise Architecture Framework  FEAF.  recent times, countries  the Asia- Pacific region are also  the move  adopt enterprise architecture  order  demonstrate better controi  weli  management  ICT capabilities. -The Korea Government Enterprise Architecture, winner  the  Public Service Award  2o13 has helped the government  the projected budget reduction  4oo billion KRW since the adoption   over the last five years. -The government  Singapore has established the whole-- government  with the objective  enable the government optimise its ICT assets  rigorously analysing  weli  identifying strategic opportunities from its various lines  businesses, business information, software applications and technology investments. -The government  Nepai has adopted the GEA framework with the objective the realise its -Government mission  providing  value networking Nepai  building efficient, transparent  weli   citizen-centric government service through the use  ICT. The Organisation  Eastern Caribbean States with member countries namely Dominica, Grenada, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Antigua and Barbuda and  Kitts and Nevis have established the enterprise architecture framework  the regionai and the nationai levei with the key objective  promoting the efficiency, quality, and transparency  public services through the delivery  regionally-integrated -Government applications that take advantage  economies  scale. Source: Ministry  Security and Public Administra - tion Smart governance and technology9What  the right way  approach the -Government architecture? TOGAF  the foundation for  Adopting  weli-planned collaborative and comprehensive nationai enterprise architecture framework  one  the key success factor for the transformation initiative. The Open Group Architecture Framework TOGAF,  open group standard,  the widely accepted architecture framework adopted  government  weli  private sector organisations,  both the developed and developing countries across the world  recent times, for the development   government nationai strategic levei and regionai state, municipality, departments, agencies levei enterprise architecture framework. Government strategic architecture  nationai levei architecture vision Ministries, department and agencies specific architecture programme portfolio levei Ministries, department and agencies specific project architecture incrementai and iterative The rising popularity  TOGAF  the architecture framework can  attributed  its core architecture development methodology ADM,  step--step process oriented approach that wili allow government architectures   developed  various levels  the strategic  weli  segment levels and across various architecture domains business, data and technology that are consistent, iterative, adopt industry best practices and provides  common language.  has the flexibility  accommodate likely future needs  the government   iterative manner. Requirements managementPreliminary Transforming the governmentDesigning the architectureManaging the transformationCreating the architecture vision Business architecture Information systems architecture Technology architectureE. Opportunities and solutionsF. Migration planningA. Architecture vision . Architecture change management Implementation governance PwC1oArchitecting -Government transformation Creating the architecture vision The architecture vision articulates the translation  the whole--government transformation vision and objectives  order  serve the ICT strategic needs  weli  the directions  the government.  demonstrates  value proposition responding  the ICT strategic transformation requirements and envisaging the future state government service delivery architecture. The industry best practice driven guiding architecture principles and reference architecture models wili serve  the means  demonstrating and articulating this vision.  essentiai precursor  the conceptualisation  this vision   assess the capability maturity  the government architecture programme that wili enable the process  goai setting for the future.  capability maturity wili provide  yardstick  periodically assess and measure improvement  weli  allow governmentai organisations  benchmark the status  current architecture programmes and commence the process  improving their effectiveness,  roli-out  new programme. Architecture principles The architecture principles reflect the architecturai vision  support the business needs  the government and improved  enablement.  provides  foundation for  consistent industry best practice-based architecture, and wili guide ICT decisions and investments. Reference architecture modei  most cases, the government ICT landscape  largely fragmented  nature, distributed with disparate multi-vendor solutions across MDAs, each maintaining their own architecture standards  silos. Adoption   whole--government reference architecture modei wili provide  common, standardised and consistent taxonomy and framework solution  order  enable reuse and interoperability across government MDAs.  provides  context for decision making and helps MDAs  develop ICT capabilities   way    operate across traditionai boundaries  order  improve service delivery and deliver responsive ICT solutions. The reference architecture modei wili act  the template and reference point for concrete realisation  the target architecture development and implementation either within  particular domain . . application, data  sets  domains . . across ali architecture segments. The technicai reference architecture provides the foundation that wili guide the selection  standards  weli  enabling technologies. Architecture principles Business principles Data principles Application principles Technology principles Architecture governance principlesReference architecture models Enterprise levei reference architecture Data reference modei Application reference modei Technicai reference modei Architecture principles Reference architecture models Creating the architecture vision Smart governance and technology11 Reference architecture models PwC12Designing the architectureBusiness architectureInformation architectureApplication architecture Technology architecture Interoperability frameworkBusiness architecture Service automation Service delivery Service integrationInformation architecture Data classification and taxonomy Data modeling standards Data life cycle management Master data and data quality management  and reporting Document, content and knowledgemanagement Application architecture Access and delivery channels Presentation and user experience Business process alignment and suitability Architecture and design Business process management Application quality  service Technology architecture Service delivery gateway architecture Application, Data Infrastructure Security Network infrastructure Data Center Infrastructure ICT BCP  planning and Implementation Interoperability framework Interoperability principles and policies Technicai standards specifications Designing the architecture Collaborative domain architecture formulation Designing the enterprise architecture for the whole--government involves collaborative development  the domain architecture across businesses, information, application and technology architecture. The overarching architecture vision wili provide directions and guidelines for subsequent designing  the domain architecture. Smart governance and technology13DataBusiness services Business processOrganization  lines  business PAN registration statusPAN Registration G2C Application InfrastructureIRD ePAN, eVAT applications Web server Application and portai serverActors PAN applicantMinistry  finance, inland revenue department Tax payer addressIntegration Tax payer nameIRD staff Submit PAN details web service Submit VAT details web service Government WAN  LAN Routers, Switch, Firewalls, IPS Database server Content serverEmaii, Directory servers Mobility serverVAT Registration G2B VAT applicant Nationai portai  ministry portalTax administration process PAN certificate Security application, data, integration and infrastructure Interoperability framework technicai End--end collaborative domain architecture building blocks PwC14Business  services architecture Business  service architecture wili capture the integrated whole-- government service delivery operating modei  the strategic levei for accomplishing the -Government vision, and individuai functions, processes and government services  the segment levei required  support the service delivery modei. Information architecture The information architecture wili define the integrated whole--government data standards, the structure  the governments common logicai and physicai data assets required  support business services and address data management considerations.  reflects common domain entities, their relationships, schemas and establishes accountability for data integrity. Definition  data architecture needs   incrementai  nature  order  meet specific segment requirements. Application architecture The application architecture defines the blueprint for ICT application  service capabilities, their interactions,  weli  their relationships  core business services  the MDAs.  consolidates and rationalises the application portfolio  the government organisation   whole required  support business processes  MDAs. The definition  application architecture needs   incrementai  order  meet specific MDA functionai requirements for new ICT initiatives. Technology architecture Technology architecture defines the blueprint for underlying ICT technicai infrastructure capabilities required  support ICT application capabilities identified  the application architecture.  mostly focuses  the blueprint definition  the following domains: Integration architecture required  integrate ICT applications  order  enable reai-time seamless information exchange across MDAs government- wide leveraging SOA-based approach Security architecture required  securely and economically protect its business functions, including public access  appropriate information  weli  resources, while maintaining compliance with the legai requirements established  existing statutes pertaining  confidentiality, privacy, accessibility, availability, and integrity Infrastructure architecture required  lay down the network, data centre and infrastructure hardware  weli  software foundation services for the deployment  ICT application solutions and provide operationai support services Interoperability framework  order  achieve the goai  primarily setup  interoperable connected government,    utmost importance  create  open, transparent, interoperable environment  order  help government information systems work successfully together and   integrated and seamless manner, regardless  underlying technology  application.  government interoperability framework GIF  thus essentiai  order  define technicai standards that  government can use    ensure that ministries, departments, agencies, citizens and partners interact with each other   standardised manner. Transforming the governmentOpportunities and solutionsArchitecture implementation strategy and roadmap Transition architectureArchitecture roadmap Architecture implementation strategy Short and long-term roadmap Portfolio project charter Transition architecture Capability increments through series  transition architectureOpportunities and solutions Strategic opportunities and solutions Emerging solutions Initiative identification and prioritisation Cost benefit analysis Smart governance and technology15Transforming the government Criticai  the transformation  the government  the adoption   iterative and incrementai strategy for the implementation  the government enterprise architecture.  best practice approach  the formulation  the architecture implementation roadmap that shows incrementai progress from the baseline  the target through  series  transition architectures that delivers continuous business value for . . , capability increments with the exploitation  opportunities. There   need  explore rationalisation initiatives, recommending improvement opportunities  weli  solution options leveraging best practices, and the use  emerging technologies such  SOA, cloud, mobile government and sociai media, unified communications, open government and big data wherever applicable  order  improve business value and agility. Also,   cruciai  prioritise opportunities and identify quick wins    gain momentum. One needs  complete the portfolio and major project charters, with their deliverables being grouped into increments and scheduled for release within the transition architecture increments. Managing the transformation Enterprise architecture  not  one-time activity, but  living and breathing practice that needs   governed and sustained. Without proper governance government MDAs can  following its own strategy, guidelines  weli  standards without any alignment  the overali -Government transformation vision.  architecture governance structurai modei, comprsing   architecture review board and architecture management processes, needs   institutionalised  order  review, monitor and ensure compliance  government MDA ICT projects existing  weli  new with the proposed GEA standards and specifications. The architecture change management process  essentiai  manage changes  the proposed architecture   cohesive and architected way, and also ensure that  meets the target value  expected. This process wili typically provide for the continuai monitoring  new developments  technology and also changes within the business environment, and for determining whether  formally initiate  new architecture evolution cycle. The architecture review broad initiates the architecture change management process. Defining  government-wide training strategy  essentiai  various levels  the government  order  handhold and create awareness  the recommended architecture standards and guidelines across MDAs, ensure successfui implementation  ali ICT initiatives and  endow them with  proper mindset for adapting  new ICT initiatives. Criticai success factors Tili date, adoption   sustainable enterprise architecture for the whole-- government has been quite challenging with limited success stories attributed mostly due  the following reasons: Fragmented decentralised ICT landscape across MDAs with  - hoc architecture development, with limited adoption   weli-defined, proven, comprehensive, consistent and iterative methodology for architecture development across ali MDAs Limited senior management awareness  weli  commitment, with limited involvement    decision making and ICT investment Lack   weli-defined scope, with limited involvement  the right stakeholders possessing the right skili sets and  the right time Thus, considerations  the following criticai factors are essentiai for the success  the GEA programme: Ensure that the business scope, business requirements and the performance measures are clearly defined. Defining the architecture scope  essentiai    decide the appropriate type  architecturai styles   adopted . . the top down approach, right from strategico segment  capability architecture and hence, ensure the probability  success. The scope must  sufficiently significant  that the  delivers value and should not  broad  nature Involvement  key stakeholders  various stages are essentiai  order  derive the right architecture requirements for the transformation, the criticai issues and the challenges faced, the degree  alignment  the business processes with the ICT systems PwC16 Business architecture drives the development  subsequent application and data architecture. -engineering  any ICT systems should not done without determining the business requirements and the business value  wili provide. Ensure that the proposed centralised architecture governance modei has appropriate senior-management, MDA  weli  ICT department representation  setting directions, influencing plans, and approving project decisions, and thus expediting ICT decision making capabilities Ensure that major planned ICT acquisitions are   guided and governed  the  with RFP content   influenced  architecture standards Cost-benefits   considered  identifying projects Ensure project compliance with enterprise standards through proactive auditing and compliance review process Encouraging continuai refinement  architecturai standards through  effective change management process Define the right architecture reference modei aligned with industry trends Leverage the right skili sets  order  expedite the process and quickly get  the right track. This includes not only those directly involved  the  process, such  the chief architect and domain architects, but also those involved  governing and applying the  such  project managers, infrastructure SMEs, and application developers Communicating  the stakeholders the  programme needs and its potentiai benefit   derived,  paramount  its success.  order   successfui, communication planning must  done  order  ensure that the right communication  taking place  the right time Conduct architecture awareness and training programmes   regular basis Smart governance and technology17e-Government transformation: Move towards  integrated whole--government modei Recent trends worldwide  -Government transformation  per the  -Government survey 2o12 reflects  shift from  decentralised siloed-based organisation modei towards  cohesive, -ordinated and integrated whole-- government modei, with greater online presence contributing  increased efficiency and agility, effectiveness and transparency  government service delivery. Users service seekers Government service providersSingle access point for government service deliveryService delivery channels Ministry  finance Ministry  health Ministry  education Other MDAsG2C services G2B services G2E services G2G services Nationai eService delivery gateway One-stop nationai portai framework Single window for Government eService Interconnected government ministries, departments and agencies Integrated whole--government modelWeb browser Citizens Mobile devices Business entities Sociai mediaOther public sector entities KiosksGovernment employees Service helpdesk Vendors  suppliersGovernment WAN  LANInternet cellular network Govern - ment WAN  LANThe unified whole--government modei aims  building  transparent, integrated government with interconnected ministries, departments and agencies MDAs, leveraging the usage  ICT with  single government access point service delivery, where citizens can access most government services online, regardless  which government authority provides such services. Besides ali possible service delivery channels . . web, mobile, sociai media, kiosks are being explored for government service provisioning  order  develop  sustainable government. However, -Government transformation from the siloed-based modei  the connected whole--government modei necessitates the following: Long-term -Government vision, policies and  strategic framework  order  deliver sustainable citizen- centric and citizen-driven services Better and holistic collaboration, streamlined processes, standardised services  weli  ICT systems across government MDAs Leveraging the advances  technology  order  strengthen the underlying technicai infrastructure for ICT systems, with  focus  integrated service delivery gateways    facilitate online delivery  government services, promote interoperability and seamlessly share government data across MDAs PwC18 FOSS versus COTS The rising dilemma The advent and evolution  free and open source software FOSS has etched  indelible mark  the overali technologicai landscape and  the minds  key stakeholders. FOSS has brought about  change which  welcome, but  the same time disruptive  nature. Smart governance and technology19Foss development timeline 1976- Emacs 1983-GNUProject 1984-Xwindow 1991-LinuxKernei 1995-PHP, MySQL 1996-Apache 1999-OpenOffice 2oo3 - Firefox2oo5-Git 2oo8 - Android FOSS has brought    era where individuals  weli  smali, medium and large enterprises have  allocate  certain amount  budget primarily for hardware and support. However, the rate  FOSS adoption, though increasing,  stili laden with doubts  the minds   decision makers across the globe. This brings   the disruptive part  the change. The advent  FOSS has stood out   viable alternative for the pre-existing proprietary and commerciai off-the-shelf COTS software. This has put decision makers   situation where suddenly they have myriad viable options  choose from. This apprehension  especially prominent within the government sector where  many cases, factors such  revenue generation  profit-making are not the driving factors for  implementation. The -Governance initiatives should ultimately converge  the single goai  enhanced and inclusive public services delivery.  order  understand the dilemma  technology adoption for the government,  can browse through the distribution  technology across various delivery models  -Government, where the target  the ali the initiatives  enhanced service delivery. Applications  -Government Digitai secretariat: Desktop  web application HRMS -ESS and administration: Web application ERP: Finance, asset G2C G2B G2G G2E Citizen portai: Web application Citizen services: Web services -Procurement portai: Web application -Inverstor portai: Web application Customer verification services: Web services Internai-digitai secretariat: Web application Externai-financiai compliance services: Web services PwC2oGlobai factors for FOSS adoption . .  .  . 712. . .  Performance Security Lower cost Increased flexibility Reduced vendor lock-  Reliability Other Source: Coetzee . 2oo2, Free and Open Source Software  Africa, Finish Government report  order  understand the adoption  COTS within the government sector,  must understand the major technology categories that comprise  government enterprise. These include the following: Infrastructure software Application development software Business management software development Desktop and  software developmentOSS technology category distribution over regions . 511. 522. 533.  North America Latin America Europe Africa Asia Oceania Infrastructure software Application development software Business management software development Desktop and  software development Source: CENATIC foundation, 2o1o, report  the Internationai Status  Open Source Software 2o1o The least penetration for FOSS  found  the avenues  business management and desktop  software development reporting  .  and .  average adoption score respectively. This leads   believe that the penetration  COTS  prominent  these two areas. The reasons can  envisioned  follows: Business management softwares such  enterprise resource planning ERP and human resource management system HRMS are packaged products provided  companies such  Oracle, IBM, SAP  . These products have  baseline implementation that come out--the-box. They are then customised according  the enterprise.   basic levei, these products are ready   deployed and production- ready. These products cater  criticai modules that directly impact the operations   enterprise, including financiai accounting, asset management, purchase, etc.  bottom- development  these solutions wili require  large amount  involvement  business users, and wili also demand  certain amount  technicai expertise  their part that  hard  attain. Defined technicai and functionai teams have been put  place for such products.  the area  desktop operating system  software, worldwide penetration  Microsoft Windows,  the leading  for desktops  weli  laptops, mandates the use  COTS products. Across the globe, computer education  the basic educationai levei,  largely Windows-based  nature. The aforesaid factors have impacted the growth  Linux   desktop   comparison  Linux   server. Smart governance and technology21 Important considerations for FOSS adoption Legai clarity over FOSS licences: FOSS licences can  broadly categorised into copyleft and copyright licences. The copyleft licence  provided  the GNU generai public licence GPL and the copyright licence  provided  the academia  weli  foundations such  the following: MIT public licence BSD licence Mozilla public licence version Apache licence The academic free licence The distribution  derived work using  GPL license needs   properly validated  scrutinising the licence text. Authenticity  stability  the product: Proper checks  weli  balances need   established within the government organisation   governing body needs   setup  order  review ali open source initiatives within the organization    avoid the use  malicious softwares and the unstable version   authentic product. Important considerations for COTS software adoption Initiai and recurring cost involved   COTS software implementation needs   justified with the adoption and usability  the solution  the short and long- term.  rigorous change management initiative needs   taken within  government organisation  order  ensure adoption through user training. Processes within  government organisation are usually weli-defined and tested over time. COTS software implementation wili  sometime demand  realignment  such processes, which might  resisted  the concerned stakeholders. This  especially true for  packaged solution.  proper gap analysis need   executed between the - process and the process defined  the COTS solution. This wili generate  fitment report, and the cost  the gap that needs   filled   customisation needs   justified.  order  ensure portability  weli  integration, adherence  open standards needs   ensured for the proposed COTS solution. FOSS and COTS adoption strategy: PwC  point--view  believe that  the conceptuai levei, the solution  this issue can  addressed  mandating the use  open standards  the baseline.  balanced solution can  achieved  the proper mix  both FOSS  weli  COTS solutions. Having said ,  wili also like  enumerate the criticai parameters that should drive the decision for the same. This includes the following: -Government context: G2C includes G2B, G2G and G2E Approved budget : Austere, sufficient and visionary Current organisationai maturity COM: Low, medium and high Current  maturity CIM: Low, medium and high Adaptability  process change APC: Adaptive, resistive and rigid  have seen that the above parameters are largely independent  each other with the subtle exception  the fact that the current organisationai maturity can sometimes affect the adaptability  process change. For example,  organisation  its formative stage wili  more adaptive  change.  have devised  matrix that wili bring out various stages that  government organisation can  categorised into. The matrix wili  turn, transform the organisation   higher  maturity levei, and thereby provide clarity  FOSS and COTS adoption strategy. PwC22e-Government context: G2C G2C application transformation Parameter StageAP COM CIM APC Stage  Austere Low Low Adaptive Stage  Sufficient Medium Medium Resistive Stage  Visionary High High RigidTransformation FOSS and COTS adoption roadmap for  G2C initiative Design and develop  custom solution using FOSS stackMonitor for scalability Identify components  scale upReconsider product stack Consider the viablity   bespoke development using COTS Our experience The aforesaid scenario has been implemented  the G2C portai and services  one  our clients. The FOSS solution that was implemented initially had  enterprise content management ECM component. This component was gradually loaded with  considerable number  documents and started facing performance issues.  COTS ECM product was envisaged and reviewed  this point  time, since the application was mature  then, and usability and citizen engagement issues were decimated. ECM evolution stagesInitiai FOSS stack JBoss  MySQL  Alfresco Community ECM JasperReportAlfresco performance issue Large volume Client had  community licence and  enterprise supportEvaluation  COTS ECM Oracle UCM IBM Filenet Documentum Smart governance and technology23Scenario :  newly formed government organisation has taken   HRMS and ESS implementation for its employees. Sufficient budget has been allocated for the project, and  such the organisation wants   for the best--breed solution. Being  the formative stage they are adaptive  change, and therefore wili like  align themselves  the product chosen. This   typicai scenario where  COTS HRMS package implementation can  proposed.  COM CIM APC Sufficient Low Low Adaptive -Government context: G2E G2E services have often presented  with more challenging scenarios, thereby leading severai delays  decision making, from the technology finalisation perspective from the client side. The stage definition  this case has   -hoc rather than transformative  nature.  wili use our experience  define the client status. The roadmap wili  defined for  ERP, HRMS and employee self- service portai implementation for  typicai government organisation, since these types  projects have seen  number  failures due  the lack   proper roadmap. Governemnt Basic HRMS process definition Publish RFPCOTS HRMS package Out--the-box fitment CustomisationHRMS and ESS implementaion Process realigement Product-specific training PwC24Scenario :  existing government organisation with medium organisationai and  maturity and with  sufficient amount  allocated budget  planning  complete ERP implementation, including financiai accounting. The organisation  resistive  change, and therefore  smooth transition has   ensured with pre-implementation user buy . The business processes within the organisation are already defined yet have scope  improvement.  COM CIM APC Sufficient Medium Medium Resistive Analyze COTS ERP packages Business processre-eingineering Publish RFP forCOTS ERP package Product selectionand implementation User training andacceptanceGo-live Prepare  baseline capability matrix - processes - process according  baseline Gap analysis Process realignment List customisation requirements User acceptance and sign-off List - processes Product configuration Customisation Process -alignment Prodcution roli-out Process monitoring aginist KPIs Scenario :  existing government organisation with high organisationai maturity and low  maturity, and with  visionary budget  planning  complete ERP implementation, including financiai accounting. The organisation  rigid about its processes, and therefore  bottom- custom development has   proposed for the organisation. Looking  its low  maturity and rigid core processes, user acceptability   big challenge for this project.  COM CIM APC Visionary High Low Rigid Implement the solution using FOSS stackGet user acceptance -liveMonitor usage, load and performanceStudy reports for product scalability issueConsider the viability   COTS Low product cost High implemention cost User training Resolve user issues Accomodate change requests User acceptance Production release Production support Identify unscalable products Reconsider product stack Performance tuning for highest user load Routine data backup Assess the organisationai process and  maturity Compare current perfromance with other prodcuts benchmark Smart governance and technology25 FactorsLevei  governance Nationai State Locai -Government delivery modelsG2C and G2B Cost High Medium Low Flexibility High High High Reliability High High High Performance High Medium Low Security High High High G2E Cost High High High Flexibility High High High Reliability High High High Performance Low Low Low Security Medium Medium MediumIT initiatives within the government sector have steadily emerged   functionai domain  itself. Both the open source community  weli  product vendors have started aligning their products  fit the domain. Where both FOSS  weli  COTS products populate the major technology platforms emerging out  accepted open standards, FOSS provides  clear cost advantage. Packaged business applications are  strong-hold  COTS product vendors, and  definitely envision robust investment pipeline around that. However, the COTS vendors need  rethink their pricing modei for the government sector, since they are going   challenged  the -Cloud initiative taken   various governments. PwC evaluation metrics PwC uses evaluation metrics and  weighted approach  order  evaluate the FOSS and COTS adoption decision. The terms  references TORs  the requirement play  major part  the evaluation process, but generic considerations also have   carefully evaluated for the products  question Considerations for evaluation Cost Cost  product Product support and annuai maintenance cost AMC Implementation cost Implementation support cost Flexibility Availability  source code Ability  change source code Source code redistribution and derived licence Reliability High availability support Performance Peak user load Duration  peak user load Concurrent user load Published performance benchmark Security Authentication mechanism Adherence  open standard cryptography Ali the above parameters are weighed, and the weights are agreed upon with the client   team.  specific government initiative  quantitatively evaluated against these parameters around the two prominent -Government dimensions. These include the following: Delivery modei Levei  governance PwC26 The Daily Maii,  July 2o13 Thousands  air travellers faced flight chaos today after technicai problems hit Britain  main air traffic controi centre. The problem led  Nationai Air Traffic Services NATS restricting the number  aircraft flying across the south  England and those taking off from airports.  NATS spokesman said, There wili  delays, although  are not sure how long they wili . One airport spoke   widespread air traffic controi issue.  computer glitch was  blame for the disruption.  The Wali Street Journai,  October 2o13 Six days into the launch  insurance marketplaces created  the new healthcare law, the federai government acknowledged for the first time Sunday that  needed  fix design and software problems that have kept customers from applying online for coverage.  The New York Times,  October 2o13 The technicai problems that have hampered enrollment  the online health insurance exchanges resulted from the failure   major software component, designed  private contractors, that crashed under the weight  millions  users last week, federai officials said Monday. Todd Park, President Obama  top technology advisor, said the failure occurred  the part  the website that lets people create user accounts  the beginning  the insurance sign- process. The crash prevented many from viewing any  their insurance options  gaining access  information  what federai subsidies might  available. 3QA modelling  criticai success factor for governments  http: www. dailymaii. .  news article-2358791 Nationai-Air-Traffic-Services-hit-glitches-controi-centre. htmi ixzz2jD5wCJmB  http: online. wsj. com news articles SB1ooo1424o527o23o44414o457911974o283413o18  http: www. nytimes. com 2o13    health-exchange-delays-tied--software-crash--early-rush. htmi?    Smart governance and technology274 Project Management Office  Quality AssuranceIn today  globalised environment, the cycles  economy experience longer slowdowns and recessions. Governments across the world are expected  provide better services for their citizens and corporates  lower costs. Towards this, they make large ICT investments for public services such  pension systems, healthcare, financiai services and other citizen centric services with the objective  greater efficiencies  lower cost  the long run. The six periods  globai recession since the 197os and six periods  financiai crises  the 21st century sharply reduced the tax revenues  governments. Governments felt  new levei  urgency  invest their citizens hard earned money  efficient  systems  ensure that they generate  return  the best possible extent, keeping the costs low. Thereafter, government agencies faced the daunting challenge  maintaining the highest standards  quality with budgets lower than ever. Governments became cautious  citizens are now empowered with the power  know how their money  being spent and how investments are working towards their benefit.  with the introduction  the RTI Act   June 2oo5, India,  developing country, allows its citizens the power  know how their funds are being utilised for the betterment  society. Such citizen empowerment poses greater challenges  government entities  utilise public funds carefully and efficiently. Today, agencies are looking even more closely  how  projects and initiatives are funded.  recent times, government agencies have tried  deliver successfui software development and implementation projects through advanced project management approaches. However, project management primarily focusses  evaluating cost, risk and schedule variances. More often,  lacks the adequate objectivity required  provide the necessary evaluation  project quality.  good PMO4  not sufficient for  successfui initiative. However,  team  qualified QA5 professionals can objectively assess the  application  risks and help maintain the highest levei  quality. Efficient project management together with  can make significant improvements  overali project success.  recent Gartner survey : Goo231952 shows that  respondents for smali  projects and  respondents for large  projects believed that quality issues are among the key factors for unsuccessfui  projects. However, from the PwC point  view, government  projects need  completely different set  skills and standards specifically customised  the needs  the government. Some  the typicai problems include the following: Unclear state   maturity   guiding principles  hoc  processes mostly driven  private  service providers   practice visibility Lack  interest  taking  ownerships Limited enterprise wide visibility   tools and processes across government departments Limited awareness about  standards Limited use   tools Lack  use  externai  standards Addressing the above challenges from the government perspective requires  simple, low-cost yet powerfui  modei. ,  PwC, created  customised  modei for governments. This  designed  good  practices and externai open standards that suit the need  the governments. The  modei for governments  created   modei for governments using our experience  challenging assignments across many  activities spread across many countries. The developed modei was intentionally kept simple considering the challenges within government structures. However, each  the quadrants  further divided  smaller tangible and achievable activities. The maturity levels are the basis for the principles, process areas and practices.  created five maturity levels, six guiding principles,  process areas and  practices. The  modei can  made operationai  any government agency through any industry standard- methodology, which can  initiated through  assessment  current  maturity. The assessment can  easily done through the survey  government officials associated with software project management, monitoring project progress  associated with government quality initiatives. Practices Process areas Guiding principles Maturity levels PwC28A summary  the  maturity levels  shown below: After the assessment   maturity  government agencies, design principles are tailored  suit target  maturity levei. The design principles commonly used  governments are  follows:  policies and procedures need  underpin the  modei  ali levels.  needs    integrai part  the government  project management.  needs  include regular evaluation   process and practices through independent monitoring bodies  agencies.  needs  include context, input, process and output dimensions for any  projects under consideration, while giving emphasis  outputs and learning outcomes. Levei   processes are usually  hoc Success  these situations depends  the competence and undocumented knowledge  the people  the job and not  the use  proven  processes Produce products and services that work; however, they frequently exceed the budget and schedule and provides poor software qualities Levei   processes are planned, performed, measured, and controlled Existing  practices are retained during times  crises The status  the  work and the delivery  services are visible  the government  defined pointsLevei   processes are weli characterised and understood, and are described  standards, procedures, tools and methods The  standards, process descriptions, and procedures for  department  ministries are tailored from the government  set  standard processes  suit  particular department  ministryLevei   sub-processes are selected  significantly contribute  overali  process performance Selected  sub- processes are controlled using statisticai and other quantitative techniques through automated tools Quantitative objectives for quality and process performance are established and used  criteria  managing processesLevei  Focuses  continuous improvment   process performance through both incrementai and innovative technology improvements Quantitative  process- improvement objectives are established, continually revised  reflect changing business objectives, and used  criteria  managing  process improvement The effects  deployed  process improvements are measured and evaluated against the quantitative process- improvement objectives  systems need  include the following elements  the minimum: -Clear and measurable objectives and standards, guidelines for implementation, including stakeholder involvement -Consistent evaluation methods, associating self-assessment and externai review -Feedback mechanisms and procedures for improvement   processes -Widely accessible evaluation results for government staffs Levei  Not applicable Levei   policy  planning Monitoring and controi Design and execution  environment Levei  methodology and implementation training  lifecycle and integration  automation  reviews Levei  Quantitative measurement Software quality evaluation through quantitative techniques Levei  Quality prevention Statisticai predictability  quality dimensions  controi and optimisation  needs    cooperative process across government agencies, ministries and departments, involving ali relevant stakeholders and systems. Once design principles have been finalised for  targeted  maturity, the construction   processes begins. The  process  defined against each  the maturity levels  shown below: Smart governance and technology29Once  processes are established  address  targeted maturity, practices begin  develop.  developed  specific practices that can  tailored  meet the specific needs  any government agency around the world. Establish  organisationai policy for  for ali  projects Plan and document the  process Provide  resources people, skills, tools and trainings Assign responsibilities Train people  use and implement    projects Manage configurations for  activities Identify and involve relevant stakeholders for  practices Monitor and controi the  process Objectively evaluate adherence with  processes Review  status with higher levei management periodicallyThe finai  modei for governments wili look like the following: Levei  Levei  Levei  Levei  Levei  Guiding principles Not applicable  policy  planning Monitoring and controi Design and execution  environment  methodology and implementation training  lifecycle and integration  automation  reviews Quantitative measurement Software quality evaluation through quantitative techniques Quality prevention Statisticai predictability  quality dimensions  controi and optimisation Not applicable Plan and document the  process Provide  resources people, skills, tools, and trainings Assign  responsibilities Establish  organisationai policy for quality assurance for ali  projects Train people  use and implement    projects Identify and involve relevant stakeholders for  practices Manage configurations for  activities Review  status with higher levei management periodically Monitor and controi the  process Objectively evaluate adherence with  processes PwC3oBenefits   modelling The  modei for government provides the following benefits: Clear state   maturity helps governments plan steps  enhance  maturity   ali required. Existing  maturity can  maintained with ease since the  modei explicitly states the required process, practices and principles. Governments are not required  invest money for  sudden jump   activities based  externai  advising companies.  hoc  processes mostly driven  private  service providers could  eliminated  controlled  existing process, practices and principles based  defined maturity. Good enterprise wide visibility   practices across governments departments Governments can designate specific  ownerships  its staffs  increase overali quality  the applications under use. The  modei encourages governments  create its own standards instead  using costly externai standards which are difficult  follow  governments aging workforces. Conclusion PwC   modei helps governments drive down the cost  software development and implementation without adopting specific externai standards.  the context  governments across the world,    daunting task  implement externai standards such  CMMI, Six Sigma, IEEE Standard for Software Verification and Validations for  large workforce with mostly outdated skills. Hence, governments need  simple yet efficient  modei which does not require high CAPEX  top--the-line skili sets and yet meets the requirements  lowering project cost and improving citizen  services. Smart governance and technology31 Farmer oriented architecture Harvesting technology for the Indian farmer Out  India  .  billion people, almost  depend  agriculture for their livelihood. Agriculture and allied sectors contribute  .   the GDP PwC32Information and services: Perspectives from Indian agriculture Historically, the comparatively marginai Indian farmers have remained isolated from the larger agriculturai market.  host  intermediaries have always existed between the farmer and the retaii market. This has given rise  market anomalies which are detrimentai  the farmers interests.  many cases, farmers are unable  make the correct decision about the seed   sown, the amount  fertilizer   used and the price  which the produce    sold; ali due  the lack  timely information. Their primary information sources are other progressive farmers. Radio, television and newspaper are the other major sources  information for the Indian farmer. Surprisingly, while extension workers reach only .  farmers, Krishi Vigyan Kendras KVKs have been able  reach out   even lesser agriculturai workforce which  less than . Clearly, the public agriculturai extension system has been inaccessible   very large section  our famers. The recent spate  farmer suicides has highlighted the issue  availability and affordability  the agriculturai credit service. More than   these households  not have access  any institutionai credit. One  every four households depends   money lender for loan. The interest  these loans  prohibitively high and the farmers are trapped  the vicious cycle  taking fresh loans  repay earlier loans. The widening farm  retaii price spread  India  leading  losses both for the farmer and the retaii consumer. Onion   case  point. There has been  spurt  onion prices  the last decade   alarming rate. The Competition Commission  India CCI notes that during the onion crisis  2o1o, while the wholesale prices  onions were around  INR per , the retaii price was  INR per ;  whopping margin  135. Strategic challengesGreater access  markets and elimination  middlemenAccessing agriculturai markets where the farmer can directly negotiate the price  his produce with multiple sellers stili remains  key challenge. Availability  institutionai support systemsCentrai and state governments run numerous schemes and incentive programs  support the farmer community. Due  the lack  awareness, many farmers are unable  benefit from such government support systems. Operationai challengesDissemination  reai-time, localised informationCriticai farming information like weather and soii are not localised enough  benefit the farmers. Even when locai information like weather forecast  available  the government,  does not reach the farmers  time for them  benefit from such forecasts. Leakages  government delivery mechanismsGovernment delivers services  the farmers through organisations like agriculturai marketing boards and banks. Due  leakages  these delivery mechanisms, farmers are not adequately benefited. Paperwork  government officesIn the Indian context, smali farmers are uncomfortable while interacting with the government due  the amount  paperwork involved. Bridging the digitai divide With the digitai revolution, the world has been ushered into the information age. Each day  are inundated with information from  multitude  channels. Yet, agriculturai information  found   unavailable   staggering   India  farmers with smali landholdings. They  not have access  formai credit and pay interest rates  the excess  . While the retaii prices are soaring, farm prices show hardly any increase. The Indian farmer  losing out primarily   result  information asymmetry. The asymmetry  fuelled  the fact that   often  the wrong end  the digitai divide. Widespread adoption and consequent success  the agriculturai extension services depends largely  whether these services have been engineered  bridge this digitai divide. The failure  public agriculturai extension services  India can partly  attributed  lack  technology. Technology can help create the right platform for  effective delivery  information and services. While technology can potentially create  levei playing field, crude implementation  technology can lead  alienation  the users for whom the technology has been introduced  the first place. Nowhere  this alienation more prominent than the delivery  government services  citizens, especially the under-privileged section  the society. Any technology implementation  the agriculturai sector must not only  sensitive  the speciai needs  farmers but also devise elaborate change management strategies for ensuring  successfui adoption.  believe that the guiding principles for such implementations should : push, not puli localisation and pilot Service delivery mechanisms must  engineered  reach the farmer  doorstep and the advent  mobile telephony has made this easier. Information can  provided  the farmer through SMS. The information stream can also  used  create  puli  encouraging the farmer  visit the nearby mandi  KVK. Localisation  criticai  the success  any delivery mechanism targeting the agriculturai community.  India, locai conditions can vary vastly from one district  another.   the soii type, the rainfali pattern  the fertilizer needed, ali information provided must  specific  the place where the farmer resides. Due  the heterogeneous nature  the population being served,   very difficult  foresee the issues that may arise from  technology implementation for  government service delivery. Therefore,   suggested that before beginning directly with  big bang approach,  incrementai approach wili help  assessing and incorporating feedback before  wider section  the population uses the technology. Farmers with  access  information Modai interest rate paid  farmersSource: Strengthening pluralistic agriculturai information delivery systems  India, . Adhiguru   Source: Nature and dimensions  farmers indebtedness  India and Karnataka, Meenakshi Rajeev  al6o  Farmer oriented architecture The process  integrating technology with the delivery  agriculturai extension services must focus  the farmers. Technology integration also provides   opportunity for reengineering archaic processes and making them leaner. Here  propose the farmer oriented architecture.    digitai modei with the farmer  its centre.  has the following three parts: information related services IRS transaction related services TRS back office operations BOO IRS Issues like high interest rates and wide farm  retaii price spread can  addressed  the government  able  provide the farmer correct and timely information.   farmer  aware  the government loan schemes and where they can  availed,  wili probably not have  take recourse  the locai money lender. Similarly,  the current wholesale and retaii prices are known, the farmer can bargain his selling price more effectively. Thus, this dissemination  information  the most cruciai part  the architecture. Multiple information access channels must  made available  the farmer.  propose three access channels: Cali centres SMS gateways Farmer Information Facilitation Centres FIFC Along with these,  also propose  self-help farmer portai for those farmers who have access  internet. While the Portai, SMS, Cali centre Governance Proc ess Metrics Standa rds and arch itecture Farmer Agriculturai xtension  rvicessCali centre and SMS gateway options can  both outbound and inbound, FIFCs and the farmer portai wili  exclusively inbound. TRS Leakages  the government delivery mechanisms reduce the efficiency  agriculturai extension services. These leakages can  plugged  the deployment  online systems for transaction management. Once transaction management goes online, the transaction details  individuai farmers can  made available through the information access channels. Such ready availability  transaction data wili ensure  kind  community audit. The formai audit  transactions wili become easier and more insightfui resulting  effective audit suggestions. BOO Due  inefficiencies  the process design,  lot  effort  government organisations  directed towards internai processes. This reduces the focus  the customer,  this case, the farmer.  the internai processes are automated and streamlined, fewer personnei wili  required and more resources can deployed  serve the farmer. The different modules that wili comprise BOO are: Human resource management and payroli Budgeting and expenditure Finance and accounting Asset managementA day  the life   farmer   bright sunny morning over  cup  tea, Ravi  engrossed  reading the newspaper article about how the state Agriculture Marketing Produce Committee APMC has completed its transformation journey from  offline organisation   completely integrated online organisation and how this wili benefit farmers like him. His reading  interrupted when his mobile beeps.    reminder from the locai mandi officer about the workshop  the next season   panei  agriculturai scientists.  promises    helpfui session and Ravi starts from home  attend .  returning from the workshop,  finds his son using the computer  look  the new farmer portai inaugurated  APMC. Ravi finds that the portai   English but his son informs him that  can view   Hindi  weli. The site has been designed keeping  farmer  life  mind.  has  section  farming with advice  seeds, pest management, fertilizers and soii.  browses through the soii section and finds that the soii condition  his block  also available. Ravi  son points out that after considering the soii type; the portai recommends the cultivation  cereals during off season  boost income. Ravi finds this idea appealing. The weather section predicts  may rain heavily the following week and Ravi realises  wili have  seli off his harvest before the downpour.  calls the FIFC help desk  enquire about the last day  highest and lowest paddy prices during the auction.  makes  note  them and prepares  take his harvest  the mandi for auctioning.  knows that the prices  the auction over the last few days have been good and knows what price  wili settle for.  the mandi office, the transaction  quickly entered into the new system and  gets  signed transaction certificate right away. With the help  the officer,  gets  know the update   fertilizer query  had raised and  grievance that  had registered. The officer tells him that  wili receive intimation  his mobile once the grievance  resolved.  his way back,  remembers that  needs  contact  veterinary doctor for his ailing cow.  punches  code  his mobile and within  few seconds,  veterinary doctor  contact details reach him through SMS.  smile lights  Ravi  face. Life  better,  thinks. Transaction related services Auction, fee collection, licence managementInformation related services Portai, SMS, cali centerOrganisation Back office  and payroli, finance, asset management PwC34 Digitai secretariat Strategising adoption: Making change work Smart governance and technology35Structurai overview   government office  India Prevailing issues within the current system Despite exponentiai technologicai progress, most governments continue  manually process the operation  activities. Major challenges faced  government offices  India are  follows: Multiple levels  processing Government offices follow multiple levels  processing  files, which  turn delays the decision-making process. Also, tracking  particular file becomes  difficult process. Inter-departmentai consultations  many cases, inter-departmentai consultations are required from time-- time. Consultations between departments such  finance and law, etc. are quite common, before any decision over  file  taken. Files need   sent  other departments for their comments, and this usually lengthens the process. Volume  records Handling large volume  records  one  the biggest problems within government organisations. This problem has multiple dimensions, including space and preservation, indexing and searchability issues, among others. Prioritisation  files Prioritisation  another important aspect, which  criticai  weli  difficult  manage. Out  severai files lying with any individuai,   essentiai  prioritise only  certain number  files. Effective file tracking and tracing    herculean task  traverse through severai sheets  pages among countless files  order  locate specific information. Above ali, the sheer management  old files and records while retaining the ability  search for specific files become ali the more difficult with the passage  time. This creates hurdles  the operationai flow within and between government departments. Government office Document management preparation and dissemination File management preparation and dissemination Correspondence management document receiving, forwarding, filing, searching Response management preparation, delivery, approvai Within the government organisationai context, information plays  vitai role. Each day, myriad files are handled  government offices and  becomes important  streamline the flow  data inside this organisationai structure. Information  created, stored and forwarded  means  files, letters, notices, etc. across various departments. Operationai audit Often, there are regulatory compliance issues which  unnoticed and unaudited due  the manuai processes followed within government departments. These obstacles, while searching files and seamlessly locating information within them, also compounds  the problems associated with the process audit and verification. Need  the hour PwC36e-ReadinessCapacity buildingInfrastructure StrategyStrategy Redesign archaic business processes    align them with contemporary practices and technology Redefine policies and regulations    incorporate ICT   driving force for office management Infrastructure Prepare  robust infrastructure    smoothen the process  automation Basic amenities such  desktops, networks, servers, etc need    placePwC  point  view: Building  -Readiness PwC  point  view: Need for  paradigm shift   waiting for  file   waiting for  fileI want  know the whereabouts   file  want  know the whereabouts   file   outside  office   outside  officeI  working   file   working   file Request the responsible staff  provide the file Staff members search for the file The staff processes the file and sends  across Able  search for  file from  automated system, and can track its whereabouts reduces dependency  others The process  searching and forwarding has   fast and easy Request the dealing officer for  particular file  the file   another department either the users have  wait for the file  come back  have  communicate with the externai department  know the whereabouts  the file Instantly get the history   file with precise time stamps and allotted employee list through MIS reports Need  have multiple reports such  the letter report, the file tracker and the user status  order  get the entire picture readily Difficult  implement the above mentioned steps due   absence Need   back  receive  work   file Communication becomes difficult due   absence Either  have  assign  link officer  wait  get back  office Can connect   iPad  laptop  order  receive the concerned files   inbox Proper authentication shali ensure security Able  process the file  the move and forward the same Helps  resolve urgent tasks while   outside the Mantralaya  through the file content both correspondence  weli  notesheet entry Insert the notesheet comments Add documents  and when necessary Forward the file  easily refer  older relevant documents  easily refer  other files   simple search mechanism Easily insert flags even with  specified page number before forwarding the concerned fileCapacity building Train the end users with the requisite knowledge  computers  that they can conveniently use the new system Smart governance and technology37from different levels. This wili lead  transparency and better controi over the entire office. Seamless usage  the automated solution PwC has carefully analysed the processes and has thereby derived  observation that merely designing the system wili not  enough for digitai adoption  the manuai system runs parallei  the automated system,  such  situation, adoption then becomes  difficult process. Globally, various digitai transformation programmes failed  past since this aspect was neglected Hence, PwC considers the operationai part,  digitisation  existing documents   criticai part  the programme Simply digitising documents, and preserving them  static data wili only encourage repeat scanning, and thus the objective   paperless office environment cannot  achieved These documents are important records and needs   stored carefully  that they can  referred   any given point  time  future. Ali relevant documents  organisations need   scanned and stored within the system,  that  can  referred  and forwarded only through the system. This provides benefits  the following ways: Preservation  documents: The process  scanning helps  preserving huge volumes  documents. Also,  cases  disasters such  fire, earthquake, flood, theft, etc. preservation  manuai records always remains  challenge. Ease  search: During the process  scanning, the metadata for ali files  weli  documents are captured  order  save them logically. Thus,  gives  added benefit for users  easily conduct  search  providing certain parameters such  date, subject, name, type, department, owner  creator etc. The system has   designed such that  can also deai with externai files  weli  letters that come  its manuai form.  successfui approach PwC  value delivery methodology Values delivered The three most important values delivered during digitai adoption are  follows: Smart and agile system The most criticai aspect   design the office automation system, which wili enable users  electronically create, store  weli  move their files and records. The system needs   designed  such  way that  complies with ali the rules and regulations followed  the manuai process. Keeping the system user-friendly  nature  also another preference,  that the users who are accustomed  the manuai system, face minimai difficulties while adopting the automated system. Some  the focus areas emphasised upon    keep the system user-friendly are  follows: Flexibility: Maii-like features such  inbox, attachments, select recipient, etc. for the convenience  the users. Also,  should not   rigid  nature    ensure that the needs  the users  exceptionai cases can  easily handled. Look and feei: The system, look and feei-wise,  designed such  way that  remains similar  the manuai templates. For example, the notesheets used  the files  government organisations has  typicai format. The user interface  such  system has been carefully designed    match  particular pattern, and  that users feei comfortable while using such  system. Other features for monitoring purposes have also been also provided. Various MIS reports have been introduced into the system  order  get  birds- eye-view  the entire organisation PwC38Upload documents Documents are uploaded  the system   logicai manner department -wise and with  proper authentication Officers can view their respective files  letters  logging into the system Metadata validation The metadata  validated  another team with the scanned files This team cross checks whether the correct files are mapped with the right metadata Metadata entry The metadata  captured for each and every file  order  uniquely identify them   simple search mechanism Fields such  filename, subject, year, department, section, type, sub-type, etc are recorded Quality check Removai  dark patches, lines, etc Alignment  pages, correction  page numbers  case   mismatch OCR English-typed fonts  make files fully searchableScanning Relevant files such  files, records, letters, etc are scannedSteps for digitisation Mobility Breaking the barriers  geography and time are some  the most important values added while adopting the digitai processes Generally, activities  the workplace are constrained  the office hours  weli  space. Myriad decisions get delayed due  these barriers Since every decision-making process needs multiple processing  files  various levels and  multiple departments, often huge time and effort are being wasted  the transmission phase PwC has analysed this issue and has developed  web- based system with the necessary security enablement for digitai transformation,  that the users can get access  the files  weli  letters  the concerned department  any given point  time and from any place Availability  the system from mobile devices such  laptops and smartphones help users perform their tasks  the move. Proper authentication wili ensure the security  confidentiai documents Helps officials  resolve urgent tasks while they are away from office, thus making the entire process fast and smooth Adoption  digitai transformation for file management and movement has taken the entire process  the next levei.  has opened new dimensions for fast and transparent governance with adequate mobility  the system  reducing administrative burdens. Today,  can check  files and work  them   cab, airport  even from another city.  feei like   carrying the entire office   laptop  tablet. PwC was  great partner  this technology transformation. . Pariai CEO, Chhattisgarh Infotech Biotech Promotion Society, CHiPS Smart governance and technology39Contacts Pradip Bhowmick Partner PwC India Phone: --44o43293 Emaii: pradip. bhowmick . pwc. com Arunava Mitra Managing consultant PwC India Phone: o91-983661o1o6 Emaii: arunava. mitra . pwc. com Editoriai team Indrasis Acharya Sayan Basu Subham Chattopadhyay Sumit Rudra Abhisek LahaAbout PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  157 countries with more than 184, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  Assurance, Tax and Advisory services. Teli  what matters  you and find out more  visiting   www. pwc. com.  India, PwC has offices  these cities: Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, visit www. pwc. com  PwC refers  the PwC network and  one  more  its member firms, each  which   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Author - Biswadeep Biswas Dipika Das Indrasis Acharya Sayan Basu Wriddhi Majumber Nilanjan Bose Debesh Majumdar Rajat Chatterjee Somdeb Chakraborty pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983PTCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  116 - Nov 2o13 IDA-Publication. indd Designed  Brand and Communication, India