Title: pwc_connected-life-the-next-five-years-in-asia
Date Published: 2013-06-28 09:47:46+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_connected-life-the-next-five-years-in-asia.pdf
Word Count: 3805
Sentence Count: 295
Average Sentence Length: 19.28

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
mobile: 53
power: 47
usd: 35
impact: 33
india: 32
could: 32
smart: 29
education: 28
traffic: 26
connected: 25
south: 24
wili: 24
pwc: 23
learning: 22
years: 21
enabled: 21
theft: 21
japan: 20
life: 20
care: 20

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  June 2o13 China: mAutomotive  India: Smart Cities  Japan: mHealth  South Korea: mEducation  Methodology  References  Connected Life The next five years  Asia  PwCShashank Tripathi India Leader, Strategy and Research, PwCMohammad Chowdhury India Leader, Telecom, PwCForeword Asia  witnessing  significant technologicai shift with the proliferation  connected mobile devices. With the growing affordability  mobile devices and the widespread roli-out   and  technologies,   only naturai that  Connected Life enabled  machine--machine technologies M2M  the next big frontier  growth and innovation.  believe that the pervasive nature  the Connected Life wili have far-reaching socio-economic impact, often leapfrogging old approaches.  this report,  have tried  explore four such high-impact mXtensions that could positively benefit China, India, Japan and South Korea over the next five years.  have explored trends and needs emerging from these countries and how mobile technologies can help address them. The overali theme that emerged was that   continent that holds the majority  the world  population, these technologies have  direct and positive impact  human wellbeing. Whether   reducing the cost  elderly care  education, easing traffic congestion,  preventing power theft, mobile technologies are helping  move towards  better, more humane and efficient society. The GSMA and various stakeholders around the world have provided valuable inputs for this report.  number  additionai data sources and subject matter experts were consulted too.  aim  generate  dialogue among policy-makers within the government, civii society, corporations and individuals  the implications and possibilities  the Connected Life. Foreword  GSMA This report was commissioned  the GSMA and put together with inputs from the GSMA Connected Living programme Connected life 3Executive Summary The Impact  the Connected Life Asia   the most connected region  2o2o. The mobile industry continues  develop   unprecedented pace and nowhere  this more evident than  Asia,  region that continues  experience tremendous growth and  2o2o wili lead the connected devices and M2M market, both  terms  the number  devices  weli  revenues, says Michaei  Hara, Chief Marketing Officer, GSMA.  Asia, this wave  mobile growth wili enable key socioeconomic advancements.  2o17, mobile wili have the power  add    billion USD  economic productivity  China  reducing traffic congestion. The introduction  mobile vehicle telematics could significantly reduce traffic  reporting criticai data such  location, driving speed and direction headed and help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly two hours each  their time every week. Time saved  reducing traffic wili help add  much   billion USD  economic productivity. Reducing congestion   key challenge with 1o6 million people  the  biggest cities  China expected  spend over  minutes commuting per day.  2o17, mobile wili have the power  help power  million homes  India  cutting power theft and improving efficiency. Installing smart meters  India could save enough electricity  power more than  million homes  2o17. India loses   the electricity  generates every year, costing the country  billion USD and power theft accounts for around half  this loss. Mobile enabled smart meters provide the wireless connectivity that allows utilities  detect and record theft  weli  help users optimise consumption.  2o17, mobile wili have the power  save  billion USD  healthcare costs  Japan. The adoption  mobile technologies for remote monitoring, disease management, and preventive medicine for the elderly could reduce Japan  healthcare spend   billion USD  2o17.  2o17, almost   the Japanese population  expected   over  years old. mHealth services for the elderly could result  sufficient savings  cover the medicai expenses  one million senior citizens each year.  2o17, mobile wili have the power  reduce education costs for students  South Korea    , ooo USD. Technology-enhanced learning, including  major contribution from mobile, could save South Korean families between , ooo  , ooo USD over their children  schooi lives  complementing traditionai after-schooi private classes.  2o12, South Korean parents spent around .  billion USD,  .   GDP,  private after-schooi education. Replacing private English and Mathematics classes with technology-enhanced learning for the equivalent  two days  tuition sessions  week could help South Korean students and their families save enough  cover half the cost  their higher education tuition. Beyond connectivity, mobile operators wili play  cruciai role  working together with  range  industry partners  health, automotive, education, smart cities and  range  verticai industries  accelerate the launch  valuable connected services, says Ana Tavares Lattibeaudiere, Head  Connected Living, GSMA.  PwC2 hours  week for every commuterChina India JapanAsia: The difference the Connected Life could make  five years South KoreaPower   million homes  billion USD saved annuallyTime saved commuting  reducing traffic congestion  billion kilowatt-hours saved  reducing power theft and improving usage efficiency Equivalent  the healthcare costs   million senior citizens , ooo  , ooo USD Potentiai savings  after-schooi private education over  student  lifetime Connected life  The number  cars  China may surpass 2oo million  2o2o China  strong economic development over the last decade and its burgeoning middle class has created  very high demand for automobiles, unlike any other country  the world. The Chinese automotive market  now the biggest  the world. According  the Ministry  Public Security, car ownership had reached 12o million  2o12. The growth  infrastructure wili struggle  keep  with urban migration and the growth  consumer wealth. Even though China has developed 639, ooo   new roads  the past five years, the infrastructure  stili struggling  contain the surge  traffic  jiāo tōng  sai.  example  this  the China Nationai Highway 11o traffic jam that occurred  2o1o. This traffic jam spanned over  1oo kilometres, lasted over  days and  considered   the longest traffic jam  history. This was  highway where traffic had increased   every year, while the roads themselves could only  widened   limited extent. Today, the average urban commute both  and from work  the biggest Chinese cities  already  the range   minutes  day. The OECD estimates that between now and 2o3o,  additionai 3oo million rurai Chinese wili migrate  the cities, thereby exacerbating the demand  infrastructure. The Chinese government has taken this    serious challenge stating that  wili support the development  eco-friendly urban transport networks, offering  wide range  tax breaks and fuei subsidies for mass transit. Vehicle telematics could help address traffic congestion  Chinese cities   estimated that between  and   commute time  China  spent  delays simply due  traffic jams. According   2oo9 study  the China-based Horizon Research Consultancy Group,  cities such  Beijing, the economic losses per person due  traffic congestion was  the range   USD  month. The results  another study released  IBM  2o11 indicate that over   respondents  Beijing and Shenzhen stated that traffic was  key inhibitor  work  schooi performance. These are cities where the Chinese government  investing heavily  infrastructure  ease commuter burden. This enhancement  infrastructure requires the infusion  additionai intelligence such  telematics and smart traffic management  maximise benefits  commuters. The introduction  vehicle telematics could reduce traffic congestion and related economic losses  enabling every vehicle  function   traffic probe and anonymously report criticai data such  location, driving speed and direction headed. Technologies such  big data analytics and cloud computing wili enable the aggregation  this data and offer reai-time,  weli  predictive, traffic solutions. These intelligent navigation systems wili  ChinaChapter 1Traffic telematics could help Chinese commuters reclaim nearly two hours each  their time every week Estimates indicate the economic benefits  the resulting increase  productivity could add over  billion USD  the Chinese GDP each year.  PwCbeyond conventionai GPS systems  that they wili constantly make adjustments  driver routes  judging reai-time conditions  ali points  the route.  estimate that the implementation  vehicle telematics  the  largest Chinese cities could potentially save drivers    minutes  day1. When  consider the fact that these cities house over  million people  working age, the amount  productive hours reclaimed could translate  economic gains  around  billion USD  2o172. Roli-outs  successfui vehicle telematics pilots are already taking place across the globe Within China, globai auto players such  BMW, Ford, , and Toyota are already offering vehicle telematics services. Most locai manufacturers are expected  launch such services  the near future  weli. Additionally, there are  wide range  third party players entering this space  provide telematics add-ons  existing car owners. Cisco estimates that vehicle telematics can reduce time wasted  traffic congestion  .  and lower costs for vehicle fuei, repairs and insurance  .  2o12 study conducted  MIT, Centrai South University  China, the University  California  Berkeley and the Austrian Institute  Technology demonstrated that cancelling the trips   select   drivers from specific neighbourhoods based  data gathered from mobile phones can reduce travei times for other drivers   much  .  number  European telematics pilots already indicate the potentiai that can  achieved  China: Turin Italy:  reduction  travei time for private cars and  reduction for public transport. Paris France:  prediction tooi using vehicle telematics provided  accurate urban traffic forecasts. Helsinki Finland, Gothenburg Sweden, Scotland , Eurodelta Netherlands, Paris and Ile  France France and Bavaria Germany:   test users were satisfied with vehicle telematics devices which helped them with travei and traffic information enabling easy access  information and improved decision-making. . The overali impact  commute times has been calculated  considering the impact  connected cars  the city. The impact  strategic reduction  drivers from criticai neighborhoods and benefits achieved from carpooling, etc  expected  reduce commute times via public transit proportionally. Estimates indicate that the overali impact  commute time reduction can range from  -  2o17. . Economic gains estimates have been adjusted downwards with  adjustment factor   - per city  account for commuters using railway and transit networks. Estimates  not include savings  fuei consumption and maintenance costs. Connected life 713  cars  the road13.   cars sold  one year 12o  cars  the road today165  cars expected 718  1o7  The  largest Chinese cities. . . mAutomotive wili help each commuter save. . . Over  minutes  day8o5    people live  urban centres today people wili live  the ten largest cities wili  spent commuting per person through reduced commute timeaddition  annuai economic productivityurban residents  2o17 rurai people are expected  migrate  urban centers2oo3 2oo9 2o12 2o17  .   Privately owned cars  hours weeklyx   commuters22  China  the largest automotive market  the worldmAutomotive  China  PwCChapter  India  transmission and distribution losses are among the highest  the world  . The majority  these can  directly attributed  power theft The rapid growth  the Indian economy has created  surge  demand for electricity that cannot  met  the existing power situation.  recently  2o11,   those with access  electricity were stili suffering power outages regularly. This supply-demand disparity  likely  worsen, considering that while the GDP grew   average   over the last five years, annuai capacity addition  power was only around . . The magnitude  stress that this puts  existing power infrastructure can  seen from the fact that  July 2o12, India  blackout was the largest power outage  history and affected over 62o million people nearly  tenth  the world  population, spreading across  states. According  the Ministry  Power, India  Transmission and Distribution losses stand   and   estimated that these losses cost the country over  billion USD every year . . .   India  GDP. Fortunately, technicai losses within transmission and distribution only represent  third  the totai power losses across India. The remaining two thirds  the losses,  majority  which  power theft, can  reduced without major infrastructure changes. Mobile enabled smart meters can help reduce power theft without overhauling existing infrastructure The theft  power  kundi    called  some parts  the county   unfortunate practice which   common that even police officials have been caught stealing power for personai purposes. While power theft can occur  many ways, such  via the tapping  power lines, tampering  slowing down  meters,  bribery, the common element continues  remain human. Mobile enabled smart meters dissuade consumers from stealing power  letting them know that the utility has the tools  detect and record theft.  conjunction with analytics tools, unusuai activity such  meter bypassing  the tapping  live wires can  easily tracked  mobile enabled smart meters provide them with widespread reai-time visibility  consumption and distribution points. Mobile enabled smart meters are highly tamper-resistant  they are able  alert utility providers almost instantaneously during unauthorised access. Additionally, their built- mobile connectivity allows them  circumvent the need for meter reading staff and therefore eliminates issues such  bribery and intimidation. IndiaReducing power theft and increasing usage efficiency via mobile enabled smart meters could save enough electricity  India  power more than  million homes. Power theft alone contributes  over half  India  electricity losses and costs the nation between  billion   billion USD every year. Mobile enabled smart meters are expected   the most criticai element  bringing down these losses over the next five years. Connected life 9Mobile enabled smart meters are cheap and easy  instali  independent modules that sit atop existing meters. Besides helping utilities reduce power theft, they help consumers optimise their usage  providing regular updates  their energy consumption patterns and associated costs. The Indian government plans  deploy smart meters for ali new connections  2o17. Based  the government  stated objectives and expected rollout,  estimate that ali these smart meters would  mobile enabled and could save upto .    totai electricity consumed  reducing power theft  weli  consumption. The government  weli  private players are pushing for the adoption  mobile enabled smart meters  May 2o1o, the Ministry  Power launched the India Smart Grid Forum roadmap outlining the roli-out   smart grid throughout the country.  shortlisted  pilot smart grid projects that wili cover close  3oo, ooo high usage, industriai and residentiai customers who account for   the totai energy consumption  the country. The key focus areas  the project include the reduction  both technicai  weli power theft related losses. The Restructured Accelerated Power Development and Reforms Programme -APDRP was launched  the Indian government with the objective  reducing network losses    number that requires  least halving power theft. Bharti Airtei,  Indian telecom service provider,  implementing mobile enabled smart meters across three Indian states using M2M technology  partnership with the -APDRP programme. The North Delhi Power Ltd NDPL  partnership with  has initiated  pilot project involving the installation  mobile enabled smart meters  5oo households across selected areas  Delhi. The aim   help the utility provider reduce power outages and increase reliability. . The year 2o17  supply and demand estimates have been calculated based  the following assumptions: The state-wise per capita electricity consumption  expected  grow based  published government estimates. The components    losses wili remain constant and the actuai losses wili reduce for ali states and union territories  accordance with the Planning Commission  estimates over the next five years. Average household size  each  the states wili not change considerably over the next five years.  PwC  electricity  lost every yearis the economic cost  these lossesof these losses are due  power theft How does power theft happen? Directly tapping power lines Mobile enabled smart maters can reduce power theft and improve energy efficiency Tamper-resistant Reai time visibility for utilities Consumer education  usage habits  need for meter reading staffMeter tampering Bribery24     USD   Indian households can  powered from mobile enabled smart meter energy savings  2o17Mobile enabled smart meters  India Note: Numbers indicate households per state Connected life 11By 2o17, almost   the Japanese population  expected   over  years old According  Statistics Japan, the number  people aged  and above increased from .  million  2oo5  nearly .  million  2o11.  2o25, nearly one  three Japanese wili  over the age  . Two reasons for this rapid shift  demographics, referred  locally  kōreikashakai, are that fertility rates are   record low and life expectancy  the Japanese population men:  years, women: .   one  the highest  the world. Despite the Japanese elderly being among the healthiest  the world, they stili pose serious challenges  sustainable Japanese healthcare, with over half  Japan  annuai healthcare spend  54o billion USD being allocated  the elderly. This number  expected  increase  around    each year. The frequency and duration  hospitai visits accounts for these high costs. The average length  stay for inpatient care   days two  three times that  patients  other developed countries and this rises sharply  around  days  case  senior citizens. Additionally, the average Japanese person visits  physician between    times  year and this rises considerably for seniors.   result, healthcare expenses for people over the age   typically tend   .  times more than their younger counterparts. Remote patient management could   cost-effective alternative for ageing patients  manage chronic conditions while staying  home Inpatient and outpatient costs account for   totai healthcare spend  Japan, with chronic conditions accounting for   fatalities. According  the Japanese Ministry  Health, Labour and Welfare, elderly patients accounted for   outpatients and   inpatients  2o1o. Additionally, the average length  each stay for long-term care patients  nearly 176 nights. mHealth can play  significant role  relieving the strain  Japanese healthcare   provides  unique set  benefits. mHealth based services such  remote patient monitoring and management can reduce the need and duration  hospitai stays post medicai procedures. Mobile enabled disease management tools are relatively simple  implement and are particularly effective  treating long-term conditions  they tend  help improve adherence and self-evaluation. This  especially relevant  the case  the elderly population where chronic conditions tend   easy  recognise, track and treat, given good patient adherence. JapanChapter 3Adoption  mHealth for elderly care  Japan could result  savings equivalent  the medicai expenses   million senior citizens each year The use  mobile technologies for remote monitoring, disease management, and preventive medicine for the elderly could reduce Japan  healthcare spend   billion USD  2o17  PwCBesides the obvious benefits, mHealth has notable applications  optimising the storage and recovery  medicai records and can help reduce administrative costs  weli  processing times. With continuous monitoring and early diagnosis, mHealth could reduce -admission rates substantially. Even with  adoption rate  only   2o17, savings enabled  mHealth could   much   billion USD per annum4, sufficient  cover the cost  treating  million senior citizens each year.  range  studies and pilots support the benefits  mHealth One  the most widely cited studies  mHealth  Meyers, Kobb and Ryan reports that  adoption  technology enabled remote care can lead    reduction  emergency room visits,   reduction  hospitai admissions and   reduction  hospitai bed days  care. Since 2o12, NTT Docomo and Omron Healthcare have teamed   provide wireless access  various Omron devices. These include blood-pressure cuffs, sleep monitors and body composition scales that support remote health management. This follows NTT Docomo and Fujitsu  2oo9 line  RakuRaku phones for seniors that worked with Omron medicai devices. Qualcomm  partnership with Medicai Platform Asia MedPA, has provided 3oo  enabled medicai devices  part  their Wireless Reach initiative  allow Japanese remote locai residents  send criticai health information  doctors through   wireless network. These devices track information such  blood pressure, weight and distance walked and shares  with participating physicians. Scotland  witnessing  shift  its demographic that  similar  Japan where over   the population now belongs  the senior citizen category.  evaluation   pilots funded  the Telecare Development Plan TDP across Scotland reported savings  .  million USD due  reduced admissions  care homes,  fali  unplanned admissions  hospitals, quicker discharges from hospitai and fewer home check visits. Overali,  was found that the telecare service could generate elderly care savings  about .  globai study  the Telenor Group has indicated the potentiai  mHealth for reducing elderly care cost  . .  order  arrive  the estimated impact  mHealth,  have made the following assumptions: The per capita spend  the elderly,   ratio  the nationai average remains constant over the next five years, . The proportion  health care spends based  conditions and functions  not change considerably over the next five years. The reduction  healthcare costs based  pilots conducted  various OECD nations can  replicated  Japan. Strength  evidence  each pilot has been taken into consideration  scale down cost reduction estimates   range    . Connected life 13Japanese wili  over the age    2o25  average, senior citizens spend almost  times  much money  healthcare  compared  their younger counterparts1  every     USD78 .  yearsAverage life expectancy  years  .   Japanese healthcare  spent  senior citizens can  saved through mHealth for elderly care  2o17of elderly care  spent  inpatient and outpatient care COPD: Pulmonary .   USD .   USDCHF: CardiacDiabetesChronic wound Digestive Musculoskeletai Nervous               Outpatient47     Inpatient Outpati entDentalPharma  Disp ensing  admi nmHealth for elderly care  Japan Potentiai Outpatient savingsPotentiai Inpatient savings  PwC South Korea According  Statistics Korea, South Korean parents spent around .  billion USD  .   GDP,  private, after-schooi education  2o12   country known  produce among the best students  the world, and where education  viewed  being cruciai for success, competition  fierce. Outside schooi hours,  overwhelming majority around   children attend supplementary, private classes. These after-hours schools, known  hagwons, charge around , 55o USD  year and can typically run for   three  five hours  day, six days  week. The average spend  education  South Korea can range from     household income, often more than spend  basic necessities such  food and beverages which account for around   . This high cost  education can have  knock- effect. Today   considered    major contributor  the steep drop  fertility rates  the country. The average number  births per woman  South Korea  about . ,  low that  2o5o nearly   the population could  senior citizens. The government recognises this and has taken steps  offer after-schooi programmes, providing additionai classes and extracurricular activities  students, and has set aside .  billion USD  provide parents with free child care   the age  five. Technology enhanced learning could save these families between , ooo  , ooo USD  private tuition for each child English and Mathematics are the two subjects  which parents spend the most,  much    totai spend  private tuition. Annually, this amounts  around 17oo USD outside  regular schooi. Despite government initiatives, the demand for these classes appears   increasing. Over the last five years, the cost  these classes has gone    rate above South Korea  average annuai inflation which  less than   increase  over  for English and  for Mathematics, each year. Our February 2o13 report The impact  the Connected Life over the next five years indicated that the adoption  technology enhanced learning both online and via mobile could reduce the cost  education   much  .  some cases, this number could  even higher when  include transportation related savings. South Korea  uniquely placed  promote mainstream digitai learning amongst younger students considering that  2o12 nearly   South Koreans between the age     had smartphones. The usage  these smart phones  high with three out  five smartphone users spending more than two hours  day  these devices. Additionally, the penetration  tablets nearly doubled  touch .   just one year and this number  expected  grow steeply  the near future. Chapter 4Technology enhanced learning including mobile could save South Korean families between , ooo  , ooo USD  private tuition for their children. The use  Technology enhanced learning including mobile  complement traditionai after-schooi private classes could help Korean students save enough  cover half their university  higher education tuition. Connected life   students were able  replace two  the six days5 they  for these extra classes with technology enhanced learning, they could save around , ooo  , ooo USD over their schooi lives6. The savings could   high  , ooo USD  students attend compulsory military service for    years before entering higher education7. South Korea has the third highest average university  higher education fees among OECD countries, with annuai average tuition costing   , ooo USD. Savings from the adoption  technology-enhanced learning could halve this tuition burden. Mobile initiatives are already being rolled out across the globe  provide access  technology-enhanced learning  2o11, South Korean  Telecom launched the  Smart Learning Service which   mobile education platform that offers interactive education and enables students  create  smart learning environment. Additionally, the service allows downloading and sharing  educationai content and lets parents track their children  academic performance. Indian operator, Bharti Airtei has launched the  Pack Education Portai,  mobile learning platform for its Indian customers. The Airtei Exam Preparation Service helps students prepare for various entrance exams like the GMAT and GRE using mobile devices. Additionally,  also offers English learning and campus search tools for its subscribers.  2oo9, Mobile Operator Turkceli launched the Mobii Egitim Mobile Education initiative which enables users  get podcasts  text-based education programmes via mobile tools. Nokia launched its Life Tools application  2oo9 and used  interesting approach for distributing content related  agriculture, education, entertainment and healthcare. Individuals can obtain content either   combined package including the price  the device    paid subscription. The application has over  million subscriptions today. Qualcomm  Wireless Reach initiative  Learn  empowering third-grade students  Nan Chiau Primary Schooi  Singapore  use -enabled smartphones  transform learning from  traditionai, teacher- centric modei   student-centric, inquiry-oriented, collaborative modei. According  the research firm, Ambient Insight, the globai market for mobile learning products and services  expected  grow  .  billion USD  2o15. The South Korean government   the process  providing digitai textbooks  ali students  2o15  order  help reduce the cost  textbooks and make traditionai education more affordable. . Based  primary interviews and discussions with education experts and mEducation service providers. . Average savings have been estimated based  the 45o 6oo USD that students can save each year. The average length  schooling   years. Totai Savings have been estimated with  nominai interest rate  .   year. . For estimates  the case  compulsory military service,  additionai  -  years have been added  account for the service period. Nominai interest  .  has been used  this case.  PwCaround .   GDP  spent  private, after-schooi education students   private after- schooi classes annuai cost  these classes per student around , 55o USD  spent  English and Mathematics classes  hours   8ooo  USD1   years7.    hour2nd rank .   USD  , 55o USD  The average Korean student. . . additionai time spent studying everyday when compared  their OECD counterparts  Korean parents want their children  enroli  higher educationstudents get less sleep daily compared  other developed countries over their schooi livesof university  higher education costsin Pearson  Globai Index  Cognitive Skills and Educationai Attainment  South Koreans between    years own smartphones7.   them own tabletsusers spend more than two hours  day  these devices Technology-enhanced learning can help students save. . . Technology enhanced learning including mobile  South Korea Initiai short listing  country-specific interventions and their key areas  impact This research report aims  capture the socio-economic impact  Connected Life services  Japan, China, South Korea and India.  part  our research,  looked  the four services  the Connected Living programme: mHealth, mEducation, mAutomotive and SmartCities.  shortlisted  series  potentiai country-specific interventions based  the following filters: Address key burning needs that affect the country   large scale Have  measurable impact  2o17 Have some degree  adoption  the existing market However for South Korea,  have not used adoption rate for population and estimated savings for each student Based  our filtering criteria,  arrived  four interventions for the four countries. Capturing data and developing impact models  created  master pooi  data  capture relevant data points for each  the four countries from the respective country statistics database . . MHLW, CEA, Ministry  Power, Ministry  Education and globally recognised knowledge sources . . WHO,  and World Bank.  then identified  series  case studies, research outcomes, and pilot programmes that have been able  arrive  quantifiable conclusions  the impact  each  the mobile interventions  the respective countries. Based  the impact evidence, the respective country studies have been clustered Japan: Disease type, India: State-wise energy losses and organised  provide specific impact data metrics. Clusters with similar impact levels based  current conditions and mobile penetration levels are adjusted  similar impact levels. These clusters and the impact  these interventions were consolidated  arrive  the first set  conclusions. These conclusions were then tested  altering impact metrics  arrive  optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. Another series  tests conducted involved the introduction  error variables  determine the sensitivity  these models. Arriving  projections The models have been designed such that the impact  each intervention  estimated  existing projections  impact areas. For instance,  case  our SmartCities India study,  used the Planning Commission report  the basis for analysing our impact  projected energy losses. Based  this impact,  have arrived  our conclusion for each  the four topics  research. Master data Need for mobile interventionMicroanalysis Impact evidence Scenario analysis Output Identifying relevant data pointsData analysis  establish realityIdentifying cluster criterion Finalising case studies and impacts deliveredParameters varied  identify various scenarios Example: Power theft   big challenge  India that can  reduced using mobile enabled smart meter technology, which can also help save enough electricity  power more than  million homes. Nationai statistics and globai knowledge source Places where possible mobile interventions can create  positive impact were identified. Each country study first identifies the methodology  clustering and then impact evidences are staggered accordingly. Identify relevant case studies and pilot programmes utilising mobile technologies for each relevant topic. Develop impact parameters based  case studies and pilots. Develop the impact modei and identify impact  outcomes. Methodology Methodology  identify socioeconomic impact for each Connected Life service covered mHealth Japan Statisticai Yearbook 2o12 Ministry  Health, Labour and Welfare Nationai Institute  Population and Sociai Security Research How Ageing Demographic change affects Health care expenditure  Japan?  Takashi Ando Palliative Care for the Elderly:  Japanese Perspective  Yoshihisa Hirakawa The current situation and the future direction  the Long-term Care Insurance System  Japan Projection  Sociai Burden  the Elderly  Japan using INAHSIM  Tetsuo Fukawa Health and long-term care expenditures  the elderly  Japan using  micro-simulation modei  Tetsuo Fukawa From Silver  Gold: The implications  Japan  ageing population- Generai Electrics  association with EIU Vitai signs via broadband: remote health monitoring transmits savings, enhances lives  Robert Litan Impact  Home-Based Monitoring  the Care  Patients With Congestive Heart Failure  Myers   Intei Health Guide and Chronic Diseases  Medd Roweli mAutomotive Chinese Academy  Sciences report  Traffic congestion IMF and China Nationai Bureau  Statistics Data  population indicators World Bank data  vehicle per capita indicators Cisco study  urban traffic congestion Study  Massachusetts Institute  Technology and University  California, Berkeley  traffic congestion QUARTET PLUS Project: Journey times for cars and public transport vehicles reduced PROMISE Project: Improved access  information CAPITALS project: Improved traffic forecasting and traffic information mEducation Statistics Korea indicators  private education The Worldwide Market for Mobile Learning Products and Services: 2o1o-2o15 Forecast and Analysis  Ambient Insight WEF report  mEducation Transforming learning through mEducation 2o1o  McKinsey and GSMA Mobile education landscape report 2o11  GSMA UNESCO Nokia: Turning  mobile learning Illustrative initiatives and policy implications 2o12 Verizon Foundation pilot  use  mobile education for students   2o12 Qualcomm  Wireless Reach initiative for -enabled learning for grade three students 2o12 Integrating technology  the classroom 2o12 - Vodafone initiative  South Africa Smart Cities The Working  State Power Utilities Electricity Departments: Annuai report 2o11- Energy Statistics 2o12-Centrai Statistics Office, India Centrai Electricai Authority, India: Annuai Report 2o11- Determining   Losses  India, their Impact  Distribution Privatisation and Regulation   Ranganathan The Performance  State Power Utilities for the years 2oo8-  2o1o-  Power Finance Corporation Ltd Feedback  household electricity consumption:  tooi for saving energy?  Corinna Fischer Results from recent reai-time feedback studies  Ben Foster and Susan Mazur-Stommen Smart meter roli-out for the domestic sector  DECC Great Britain Reducing Technicai and Non Technicai Losses  the Power Sector- World Bank Group Energy Sector Strategy Distribution loss  electricity and influence  energy flows:  case study   major section  Kerala    Suresh, Shanavas ElacholaReferences Shashank Tripathi India Leader Strategy and Research Phone:  98196789oo Emaii: shashank. tripathi . pwc. com Mohammad Chowdhury India Leader Telecom Phone:  9167665544 Emaii: mohammad. chowdhury . pwc. com David Wijeratne Associate Director Strategy and Research Phone:  9818966775 Emaii: david. wijeratne . pwc. com Madhu Varshitt  Principai Consultant Strategy and Research Phone:  9769721412 Emaii: madhu. varshitt.  . pwc. com Mayank Sankar Nayak Consultant Telecom Phone:  9867464488 Emaii: mayank. . nayak . pwc. com Tanushree Srivastava Senior Consultant Strategy and Research Phone:  993o821238 Emaii: tanushree. srivastava . pwc. comContacts About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity. AK17 - June 2o13 Connected Life. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India