Title: pwc_indian-pe-in-2012-outlook-2013
Date Published: 2013-01-07 11:02:45+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_indian-pe-in-2012-outlook-2013.pdf
Word Count: 595
Sentence Count: 62
Average Sentence Length: 16.02

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
usd: 15
investments: 14
year: 11
billion: 11
deals: 9
indian: 8
exits: 8
funds: 8
india: 7
wili: 7
deai: 7
businesses: 6
private: 5
last: 5
community: 5
investors: 5
globai: 5
sector: 5
pwc: 4
even: 4

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Reflections: Indian private equity  2o12 www. pwc. inSanjeev Krishan Leader, Private EquityPwC India Last year, without  doubt, was challenging for the private equity  business  India. Though the year, specifically the first couple  months, witnessed  firms make  bunch  successfui exits, the mood turned sombre when the government,   part  the budget proposals, announced some draconian tax legislation which left majority  the  community   quandary.  funds were not even thinking about further investments, but more worried about the impact the proposed legislation wili have  their existing investments and business models. Owing  the high valuations  which the investments were made  2oo7 and 2oo8,  number  portfolio investments   funds are currently not  the money and with the falling Indian rupee down , exits were becoming even less attractive.  this scenario, the intended change  tax laws spooked the community far more than  strategic foreign investor.  India struggled  find  positive mention  investors discussions during , inbound investments into the country dropped sharply;  investors thought the same. Even  the regulators looked  take some rearguard action from , the adverse sentiment significantly impacted  investments for the year. While one hopes for  pragmatic end  the tax and regulatory challenges  2o12, the clear message from the investing community  for  stable regulatory regime, which  progressively liberai. Another factor which caused  lot  grief  the investment community was the complete policy inertia,  the government struggled  deai with various corruption scandals  faced during the year. The globai financiai crisis too created significant challenges for businesses.  particular many Indian businesses which had become increasingly globally aligned over the last four--five years and with greater exposure  Europe were the worst hit. Some  these businesses were  funded, and these investments continued  challenge the fund  Indian portfolio. Uncertainty takes away the charm Looking back  the year, aggregate  investments declined ,  .  billion USD across 4o6 deals  compared  .  billion USD from 481 deals  2o11. Sector-wise,  and healthcare contributed the most   deai activity  2o12.  and ITeS accounted for over one third  the totai deai value and volume  2o12. Nearly .  billion USD was invested  162 deals  . This was greatly aided  the  billion USD Genpact deai.  2o11,  sector witnessed investments worth .  billion USD across 158 deals. The healthcare sector showed the highest incrementai growth with  deals worth .  billion USD. Last year, the sector saw 418 million USD  investments across  deals.   funds focussed  consumer-centric investment during the year, healthcare proved    perfect defensive play for them. Despite  slump  the overali deai value, banking and financiai services maintained their relative attraction   funds. However, energy, engineering and construction   and manufacturing witnessed the largest declines. While  energy and  , the totai investments reduced  one third, from .  billion USD  478 million USD and from .  billion USD  366 million USD respectively  interest  manufacturing reduced   fifth  compared  2o11 from .  billion USD  345 million USD. The infrastructure sector also suffered  terms  fresh investments, due  lack   clear policy regime, further accentuated  policy inertia. Another cause for the cautious approach was the fact that most  the funds are sitting  negative returns 2oo7 and 2oo8 investments. While some  them wili typically have  longer holding period,  the moment,  number  infrastructure investees seem   suffering from highly levered capitai structures, caused  pricey assets and contracts bought over the years. Revived stock market provides lifeline for exits  terms  exits, the year saw over .  billion USD  exits  value terms  deals  compared  .  billion USD  deals  2o11. The first quarter  2o12 saw  bunch  exits through the stock markets, and  the markets revived towards , there were signs that  may facilitate further exits over the next few months. The year also saw  number  secondary exits,   firms found  easier  support management teams with  proven track record, even  lower anticipated returns than those achieved  the outgoing investors. Outlook for 2o13 Despite the challenges  2o12, the new year promises   more positive. The following trends can change the game  2o13: During 2o12, there were clear signs that Indian promoters are willing   pragmatic. This wili potentially create opportunities for  funds  look  businesses, which have  good operating modei, but have suffered owing  over-ambitious expansion, and  poor capitai structures. The globai crisis meant that  some cases, globai strategic investors may  looking  monetise their Indian assets . . , the Clariant deai late last year. The rumoured Lafarge deai,   happens, could  another instance where emerging market growth needs support from locai funding,  globai players struggle  home territories.   expected that there would  more such opportunities  2o13. Relaxation  the FDI regime, particularly  retaii businesses,  expected  spur investments  the sector. From   perspective, sectors which support retaii back-end wili   interest.  particular sectors such  logistics and warehousing, food processing and the services segment  generai should   interest   funds. Apart from investing activities,  number   firms wili  focussed  raising their next round  funds, and this wili   indicator  how the globai investment community looks  India. From  Indian fiscai standpoint, there has never been  greater need for foreign investment  the country. The role   investors  supporting Indian businesses  weli-acknowledged. The question  whether the policymakers have done enough  encourage them  look  India differently from the last year-  wili have  wait and watch. Sources: Venture Intelligence and PwC Research Reai estate deals are not included  this round- 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.  433 - January 2o13 IndianPE2o12. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India