Title: pwc_the-holy-grail-of-indigenisation
Date Published: 2013-07-01 16:10:19+05:30
Source: pdfs/pwc_the-holy-grail-of-indigenisation.pdf
Word Count: 4604
Sentence Count: 314
Average Sentence Length: 22.46

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
defence: 112
india: 55
indian: 50
technology: 49
sector: 42
industry: 40
private: 34
indigenisation: 33
equipment: 29
government: 29
pwc: 26
domestic: 25
manufacturing: 24
tax: 24
aerospace: 23
msmes: 22
development: 22
assocham: 22
also: 22
wili: 21

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

www. pwc.  June 2o13 Introduction  Landscape: Defence industriai base  Next generation technologies  Challenges  indigenisation  Participation  MSMEs and their challenges  The holy graii  indigenisation Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  PwC    pleasure  learn that the Associated Chambers  Commerce and Industry  India  organising the 6th Internationai Conference  Aerospace and Defence. The theme  the Conference, Improving  Indigenisation towards self-reliance  timely and relevant. Aerospace and Defence are two  the core sectors that are cruciai  strengthening the defence  any nation. Fast paced technologicai changes are taking place  these fields. However, the endeavour  both the public and the private sectors must   modernise the defence systems through maximum possible indigenisation. Various agencies are making efforts  indigenous development  latest equipment and weapon systems. Ali these agencies must interact   regular basis with end-users for timely induction  such weapon systems and equipment.   sure that the Conference wili discuss ways and means  accelerate the pace  indigenisation  the defence and aerospace sectors.  wish ali the delegates  the Conference  warm and  pleasant stay  our country. Here  wishing the deliberations  the Conference ali success. .  Anthony Hon ble Minister  Defence Government  IndiaMessage  behalf  ASSOCHAM,   pleased  announce the sixth internationai conference  Aerospace Defence for increasing indigenisation towards self- reliance   held  26th June, 2o13  Hotei Shangrila, New Delhi. ASSOCHAM  Nationai Councii  Defence has been proactively working  close coordination with the Ministry  Defence, Government  India and  committed  making the Indian Defence Sector more robust. ASSOCHAM appreciates the efforts being made  Ministry  Defence and specifically  its Acquisition Wing towards rendering the defence procurement procedures more conducive  indigenisation. The new DPP 2o13 has helped  promoting participation  the Indian Private Sector and adoption development  technology,  enable the Private Sector  contributing  Indian Defence programs   meaningfui way. While the Ministry  Defence initiatives definitely boosts optimism, there are stili certain elements which need the attention  Ministry  Defence. This seminar  intended  highlight these elements. For  meaningfui two-way discussion the Ministry  Defence has very graciously accepted  chair the various sessions  this seminar.  are also pleased  release the report  The holy graii  indigenisation: Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment.  would like  thank PricewaterhouseCoopers, our Knowledge Partner for this conference, for this excellent report that highlights the key issues and challenges  increasing indigenisation  achieve self-reliance  manufacturing defence equipment.  Bhasin, Vice Admirai Retd. , PVSM, AVSM, VSM Chairman, ASSOCHAM Defence Councii Message The recent announcement made  the Ministry  Defence, Government  India  Defence Procurement Procedure 2o13  Capitai Procurement highlights the need for self reliance towards indigenisation  the Indian Defence Industry. Ministry  Defence has promulgated the Defence Procurement Procedure 2o13 which aims  balance the competing requirements  expediting capitai procurement, developing  robust indigenous Defence sector and conforming  the highest standards  transparency, probity and public accountability. While laying  strong emphasis  promoting indigenisation and creating  levei playing field for the Indian Industry Any Defence program success  failure  because  supply chain execution and   precisely here that the Indian Smali and Medium companies wili play  criticai role  the entire supply chain for the Aerospace and Defence sector. ASSOCHAM has taken the thought leadership position  inviting the industry leaders and the decision makers  various forums for creating  better understanding about this Sector.  are very confident that the ASSOCHAM  Nationai Councii  Defence  organizing the 6th ASSOCHAM Internationai Conference  Aerospace Defence with the theme Improving  Indigenisation towards Self-Reliance for creating  better understanding  further strengthening the domestic supply chain and locai manufacturing  the   sector  India.  believe that there   significant business opportunity for the India Defence companies particularly the Smali and Medium Enterprises who are known  develop niche technologies for the Defence and Home Land security.   ASSOCHAM believe that for developing niche technologies within the country Government needs  review the current FDI norms  the Defence Sector.  thank the Ministry  Defence and also Micro, Smali and Medium Enterprises, Ministry, for officially supporting the 6th ASSOCHAM Internationai Conference  Aerospace Defence and also guiding .  would also like  thank our knowledge partner PricewaterhouseCoopers for mapping the criticai issues and suggesting the remediai measures  achieving indigenisation The Recommendations from this Conference wili  forwarded  the concerned Ministries which may set the roadmap for further developing the Defence Industry within the country. With best wishes,   Rawat Secretary Generai ASSOCHAMMessage Message India undoubtedly has potentiai  become one  the key players  the internationai stage  the competitive Aerospace Industry, domain  highly developed countries for decades. Fundamentai globai economic and politicai decisions hinge  how far India has progressed and how quickly our highly complex country can become  globai powerhouse. There   very clear linkage between  country  economic growth and its aviation industry. There are encouraging signs  the aerospace industry emerging   major contributor  our self reliance and export business.  the same time, there are signs  domestic industry enhancing its capabilities through joint ventures and technology tie-ups. India continues   one  the top Defence spending countries  the world, with substantiai numbers  signed capitai acquisition contracts  the recent past and many more  the pipeline. With the increasing liberalization  Defence Procurement Procedure  weli  the recently announced focus  Make India programs, there would  substantiai impetus  domestic Industry for growing  fast pace. Fundamentai strength  the Indian Industry already exists,  form   large number  SME  and MSME , who are transforming themselves into major players  this sector.  they and large business houses can collaborate  form  robust Indian Aerospace Defence eco system, India would surely create  mark  internationai stage, sooner than later.   time for Government and Private enterprises  come together and become  key part  Globai Aerospace Supply Chain. Industry bodies play  cruciai role  creating and sustaining  atmosphere cruciai for industry growth. ASSOCHAM has been doing  admirable work  actively contributing  this area. Wishing team ASSOCHAM  success. Kamesh Gupta -Chairman ASSOCHAM Defence Councii  are pleased  present the discussion paper  The holy graii  indigenisation: Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  the 6th ASSOCHAM conference  Aerospace and Defence. Characterised   high growth potentiai, India  aerospace and defence industry  important  the country  strategic and economic interests. The   value-chain  long and complex and our manufacturing capabilities can  best  described  patchy with smali pockets  excellence  many levels, but without comprehensive coverage. The defence procurement procedures DPP have undergone severai revisions  the past  promote indigenisation. However, none have been  direct and comprehensive  those announced  its latest version. The most important  these  laying down  hierarchy  acquisition programmes with those that wili make domestic private companies the primes  giving them highest priority while categorizing defence procurements. Though the revised DPP  encouraging and seeks  invite larger participation  domestic players, the government  stili  long way from achieving its stated objective  broad basing domestic capabilities  including the private sector  defence production. There   need  streamline policy contradictions for creating synergies and  eco-system that stimulates investments  building domestic capabilities across the entire supply-chain.  trust this paper wili provide valuable insight  existing and prospective investors  the opportunities and challenges confronting indigenisation.  also thank ASSOCHAM for giving  this opportunity  present the perspectives and opportunities for the sector  India. Dhiraj Mathur Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice PwC IndiaMessage  PwC Introduction Across the world, the aerospace and defence   sector has always been associated with cutting-edge research and development that has spawned some  the most game-changing inventions  have impacted our lives.  excellent example  the internet. These innovations are generally  state mandate, employing  battery  scientists and engineers.  India continues with  massive acquisition programme that started over  years ago  provide its armed forces with the latest and best equipment,   pertinent  ponder over reducing its extreme dependence  imports  building indigenous capabilities across the entire value-chain from research, design and development  manufacturing, integration, maintenance and repair. The government being the sole regulator needs  design solutions for what   tightly regulated monopsony market. The regulator and its companies account for almost ali  the limited indigenous production. Laudable  the government initiatives are,  must  borne  mind that domestic capability cannot  built merely  addressing RFPs  Indian companies. There are multiple areas that need attention funding,  , taxation, protection  intellectuai property, foreign investment and collaboration, the import and export regimes. There  need for  comprehensive review  ali  these  create synergies rather than contradictions and  eco- system that stimulates investments  building domestic capabilities across the entire supply-chain. Keeping  view the above background, this paper assesses the current status  the Indian defence industriai base, requirement  next-generation technologies and analyses the role the new DPP can play  accelerating the pace  indigenisation. This paper also attempts  identify various operationai and regulatory challenges impacting indigenisation. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  Landscape: Defence industriai baseThe Indian   market presents  attractive and significant opportunity for Indian and foreign companies. India allocates about .   its GDP towards defence spending,  which   allocated  capitai acquisitions. India ranks among the top  countries  the world  terms  military expenditure yet imports   defence equipments. Sector overview Indian   manufacturing  dominated  DPSUs and ordnance factories which contribute about   the totai manufacturing output. DPSUs contribute about   the defence manufacturing output  the country. Their output has grown   CAGR   from 2oo2  2o12. While they have enjoyed significant protection from the government,  must also  acknowledged that their growth has been constrained  this ownership. Moreover, they have grown during the long period that this country faced deniai regimes. DPSUs have been unable  expand with the orders placed and each has order books that extend weli beyond    years. -opting the private sector wili, over time, reduce the production and delivery period. DPSUs have played  criticai role  building  domestic industriai base  this sector  they typically outsource     their production requirements  private companies. The leading DPSUs include Hindustan Aeronauticai Ltd, Bharat Electronics Ltd, Mazagon Dock Ltd, and Bharat Earth Movers Ltd. The  ordnance factories are spread over  different locations and employ close  , , ooo people. These factories manufacture  wide spectrum  products from weapons smali calibre, mortar equipment, medium calibre and large calibre, ammunition smali medium and large calibre, mortar bombs, grenades, signalling smoke, rocket bombs, demolition, explosives, propellants and chemicals, vehicles armoured and transport, clothing, generai stores and equipment for the defence services. Revenue Capitai Type Units Revenue 2o11-  INR crore DPSU  , 667 Ordnance  , 39oIndian defence budget Figures  billion USD  PwCEfforts  indigenise Defence sector manufacturing was opened  private and foreign participation  2oo1. Since then, there has been increased focus  indigenisation. The private sector, which contributes approximately   the totai manufacturing output, has seen  significant change  its role. From  supplier  raw materiai, components and sub-systems, Indian companies are now progressing  become partners  manufacturing and integrating complete equipment and systems. Tili date,  per the data available, close  18o licences have been granted which  reflective  the current manufacturing capability  the Indian enterprises. Some  the established Indian companies engaged  defence manufacturing  rendering engineering, design and testing services include Larsen Toubro, Mahindra Defence Systems, Tata Advanced Systems Ltd and Tata Motor Defence Systems  addition  over 6ooo MSMEs such  Alpha Design Technologies, TAAL, Axis Aerospace and Centum Electronics. The government has initiated the process  transforming the   sector  taking policy decisions  develop  indigenous manufacturing base, consequently reducing the dependence  imports. Progressive revisions  the DPP clearly highlight the graduai shift  focus towards indigenisation  the government attempts  utilise the Indian industry' cost advantages, availability  talent, manufacturing capabilities and  competitiveness. DPP 2o13 clearly focuses  creating  conducive environment for achieving indigenisation  stipulating preferred categorisation for buy Indian, buy and make Indian, make categories and allowing the private industry  participate  maintenance transfer  technology ToT thereby providing  levei playing field   with foreign OEMs and DPSUs. This mandate wili compei Indian companies and foreign OEMs  revisit their India strategies and wili most surely stimulate increased strategic and technology partnerships between them. The government has also been successfui  bringing much-needed clarity  the licensing process  releasing the defence product list and  clarifying that duai use products  not need licensing. However, the procedure for arriving  the value  indigenous content seems   complex and requires deliberation  there wili  many practicai challenges  compliance.  point  concern   recent office memorandum issued  the Department  Defence Production  keep  abeyance certain service related paragraphs  offset guidelines which raises significant concern  the fate  the eligibility  services   offset avenue. India   pioneer  rendering engineering, design, testing and software development services and hopefully the government wili seek representations from ali stakeholders before taking  finai decision  the eligibility  services   positive offset avenue. Areas  development Project management capabilities The defence manufacturing set- has traditionally faced constraints due  inadequate technology and  delivering projects within the budgeted cost and time . . the delay  the Light Combat Aircraft Tejas programme which took close  three decades for completion resulted   -fold increase  project cost.  analysis  the employee productivity reveals that the defence sector has  long way    meet benchmarks from the domestic and globai private sector. The Annuai Survey  Industries, conducted  the Ministry  Finance revealed that the defence industry output  , 539 INR thousand per employee per year was considerably lower than the average  , ooo INR thousand per employee per year across various industries. The DPSUs and ordnance factories have often faced challenges towards scaling  production capability and  match globai standards  quality and delivery. However, sectors with dominant private participation have over time been more agile  building capacity and adapting new technology and delivering  internationai standards  quality. For example,  the automobile industry, globai companies like Toyota, Suzuki, Generai Motors, Ford and Honda and  telecommunication, majors like Nokia and  have ali set  production bases  India. Due  the limited share  private and foreign participation  the defence sector, the industriai growth trajectory has been sluggish  increasing capacity and absorbing technology. Technology India  historicai dependence  imports may possibly  one reason for the limited focus  developing intellectuai property. Presently, access  technology and -house capability development has been  bottleneck for manufacturing. ToT carried out  globai OEMs  limited  access for domestic players  the DPSUs have invariably been selected for production purposes. The  cap  FDI also disincentivises investment and ToT. Talent development and retention India has  large pooi  qualified scientists and engineers leveraged   growing number  foreign OEMs who have set  engineering and design centres. Anecdotai evidence suggests that the growing presence  these OEMs has put pressure  the DPSUs  attracting and retaining talent. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment 11Industry SWOT analysis Strengths Large domestic market Existing manufacturing infrastructure  DPSUs contributing approximately   manufacturing output Strong   set- for the Defence Research and Development Organisation DRDO Large pooi  talented scientists, engineers and skilled manpower Weaknesses High dependence  import  capitai equipment Low absorption and ToT  DPSUs and ordnance factories Limited indigenous machine tooi building capability Talent attraction and retention Restrictive and contradictory policy regime Opportunities for growth Shrinking defence budgets  the  and Europe The offset policy can stimulate creation   domestic value- chain Allowing private participation  MToT wili create domestic industry  MRO Threats Lack   levei playing field due  unfavourable policies for domestic private players has thwarted their development. Competition from emerging economies for OEM investments and ToT Adversaries also investing  acquisition and development   defence industriai base while turning self-sufficient  production and technology Research and development With  vast network  institutions and more than  labs across the country, the DRDO  the pioneer   agency  the Indian defence sector and has  its credit  number  spectacular successes, particularly  its missile development and aeronauticai system programme. Other government agencies like the CSIR, the Department  Space DoS, the MOES and the DST are also involved    while outsourcing  domestic MSMEs. The private sector has had  limited share  the   space  the defence sector. However, there have been  few success stories like Tata Power  Strategic Electronics Division that has partnered with the MoD, the armed forces and the DRDO since 1974  the development and supply  state--the-art defence systems. Challenges facing   The Indian defence budget allocates approximately  towards   spend  compared    France and   the . High upfront   and establishment costs with long gestation periods for realising   benefits and the absence  government sponsored programmes have deterred private involvement and investments   . India  faced with limited expertise  designing criticai equipment  advanced technology due  lack  ToT from globai OEMs. India lacks adequate infrastructure and trained human capitai  support   initiatives. End users  technology and equipment along with manufacturers are currently not fully involved  the decision- making process with key   agencies like the DRDO. Existing agencies have not been very successfui  sharing   capabilities with private players. There  hardly any competition within   agencies and private players for developing weapon systems and technologies.  PwC Next-generation technologiesThe   sector has spawned cutting-edge technology. Constant improvements are taking place  military equipment and better technologies are being developed around the globe. India has long been considered  potentiai hub for   because  its vast talent pooi  engineers and scientists. Despite this, the country  lagging behind  terms  technology development and increasing imports show that   not utilising its purchasing power  leapfrog into niche areas.  key requirement for private participation  visibility  the technology requirements  the armed forces. The technologicai capabilities which India needs were first spelt out  the Technology Perspective and Capability Roadmap 2o1o TPCR and subsequently  TPCR 2o13, which are released   unclassified version  the LTIPP. These are one  the first efforts  provide the domestic industry with  overview  what the armed services hope  acquire  the middle  the next  years. The document  stated intent has been  drive the technology and development process  prospective developers, contractors and bidders  India and abroad, and  provide industry  overview  the MoD  objectives and enable the defence industry  plan their   roadmap. The TPCRs thus identify strategies for attaining nationai defence objectives such  strategic deterrence, fuli-spectrum capability, sea controi, aerospace capabilities, speciai operations, logistics, defence cooperation, media, personnei, leadership and use  technology. The capabilities envisaged for the army include optimising force application capability, individuai protective equipment for troops, enhancing detection and decontamination equipment  quality and quantity, developing integrated field shelters, addressing logistic voids and enhancing logistic capability, enhancing mobilisation capability, C4I2SAR capability, night-fighting capability, developing  capability, improving anti-armour, SAM, ASM and SSM capabilities, introducing and developing the land warrior concept, aviation quick reaction capability, indigenisation  bridging technology, improving communication  effect manpower savings and derive maximum benefit from the telecom network, improving and developing wide area network and satellite communication network, enhancing battle space awareness and force protection capability. Similarly,  elucidates the requirements  the navy and the air force. With increasing technologicai sophistication  defence, skili requirements  the industry are specific and require considerable time, money and human resources  develop. Thus, TPCRs are  welcome step. However, the extent  which the industry can utilise these TPCRs with the details available remains  big question   does not provide relevant information  the basis  which industry can chalk out its business plans. The industry needs adequate information  create  technology roadmap  identifying the product that wili  the focus, the technology drivers, the alternatives and the timelines. Thus, the concept  indigenisation can  facilitated  the contents  the TPCR have adequate details and are  consonance with  weli-planned defence manufacturing policy based  product strategy. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment 13It  added that measures are also required  promote   and greater coordination between research institutes like the DRDO, universities and private industry players. The educationai institutions are  rich source  human capitai, which can  effectively leveraged  help the sector jumpstart its development.  the current environment  blanket secrecy,   difficult  develop meaningfui partnerships with academia  private institutions. There are  large number  niche areas where the nation  existing talent and low-cost base can  leveraged  attain  competitive position  developing next- generation technologies. Stealth With the advent  and improvements  sonar, infra-red and radar technologies,  has become increasingly difficult  remain undetected  the enemy. Countries around the world are trying  develop ways  reduce the visibility  their troops and machinery for tacticai and operationai advantages. Stealth technology was developed   direct consequence.  aims  reduce the visibility  troops, vehicles  aircraft using  variety  techniques. Some  these involve design, shape, camouflage, radar absorbing materials and ways  reduce the infrared traii. Stealth aircraft are probably the best example  the advancements  stealth technology. They are adapted  certain ground vehicles and are also  important part  designing  submarine.  India, the advanced medium combat aircraft AMCA and fifth generation fighter aircraft FGFA wili possess stealth technology. Robotics The importance  robots for the armed forces  immense. Unmanned aeriai vehicles UAVs and unmanned ground vehicles UGVs are examples  robots increasingly being used  countries both for reconnaissance and attack. Robots are used   variety  applications where the job  either too tedious  dangerous for people. The DRDO  developing  unmanned combat air vehicle UCAV called Rustom for the Indian military.  has the potentiai   used for reconnaissance  the Naxalite infested areas which wili give troops  clear idea  the dangers. Air independent propulsion AIP The AIP technology helps keep submarines underwater for longer periods  time. Submarines have  surface  use  snorkei  access atmospheric oxygen and  release exhaust. This makes them vulnerable  detection  enemy forces compromising the safety  the submarine. The DRDO   the process  developing this technology. Two  the Scorpène class submarines bought from the French company DCNS may also  fitted with AIP technology. Nanotechnology, composite materiai and metai research Night vision Electronic miniaturisation Textile technology Defensive systems  satellites Cyber warfare Increase FDI Promote   Allow offset for    leading institutions like the IITs and IIS Improve transparency and lay down  detailed roadmap  TPCRs Incentives for development Niche areas for next-gen technologies Measures  support ToT Directed energy weapons DEWs DEWs emit energy   aimed direction without  projectile. This energy can   various forms--particles with mass, sound and electromagnetic radiation. This   developing technology, yet   used effectively and being considered for operations like protecting the earth from asteroids.  time, this technology  expected  develop because  its many operationai advantages. The DRDO has reportedly started work  DEWs such   -kilowatt laser system  destroy incoming missiles  their terminai stage and  1oo-kilowatt solid-state laser system  take out missiles  their boost phase itself.  PwC Challenges  indigenisationDefence procurement procedure 2o13: Catalyst for indigenisation The revised DPP has provisions  promote transparency, accountability and accelerating the procurement processes. The key relevant highlights  the revised DPP are  follows: Prioritisation  buy Indian and buy and make Indian for capitai acquisitions under defence procurement procedure Maintenance ToT MToT wili  longer  through nomination but through bidding Advance consultations for make procedure Simplification  buy and make Indian procedure Clear definition  indigenous content Ensuring faster progress  make and buy and make Indian cases Enhanced delegation  financiai powers for capitai acquisitions Powers  DAC  approve ali deviations from DPP The key change  DPP 2o13 has been the stipulation   hierarchy  categorisation  any new defence procurement under buy Indian and buy and make Indian categories. Buy Indian requires  minimum   indigenous content  cost-basis. However, buy and make Indian must have  minimum  indigenous content  cost-basis.  further provides that apart from the overali indigenous content being  least    the totai contract value,  minimum   indigenous content wili also  required   basic cost  equipment;  cost  manufacturers recommended list  spares; and iii cost  speciai maintenance tools and speciai test equipment taken together. DPP 2o13 also lays down the method for computation  indigenous content.  broadly prescribes the cost  the equipment   reduced  the cost  imported materials, cost  services received from non-Indian entities  ali tiers. The definition  indigenous content  spirit  commendable and seeks  scan through the indigenous content  the entire supply-chain. However, ensuring compliance with the requirement  ali the tiers  going   extremely cumbersome for the entire industry. The indigenous content    currently worded may also  open  varied interpretation, example, the meaning  non-Indian entities, direct and indirect costs  services etc. Further, the Indian companies, even  they are indigenously manufacturing the core equipment, may get disqualified   strict application  the definition  indigenous content. This may lead  -categorisation  the procurements under buy and make with ToT  buy globai programmes and eventually defeat the objectives  the changes. The affirmation  indigenous content  the triai stage  impracticai and requires -consideration.   acknowledged that India does not have the current know-how and the infrastructure  manufacture high-end defence equipments and therefore, expecting the requirement   fulfilled  the time  trials  unreasonable and impracticai. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment 15In summary, while the recent initiatives taken  the DAC  revamping the defence procurement procedure are welcome, however, there wili  challenges  complying with some  these new provisions requiring further deliberation. Further, though the DPP seeks  provide  levei playing field  Indian private players, there are areas which are heavily lopsided  favour  DPSUs.  case  point being the ERV benefit being extended only  DPSUs  -initio single vendor cases  when nominated   production agency. Defence product list: Simplifying the licence regime The industry has long been grappling with the issue  industriai licence. This has finally been clarified and  licence  not required for duai use goods. However, necessary sensitisation  this position  required  that there  consistency between the policy and its implementation  various arms  the government.   also interesting  note that though the defence product list has been put   the MoD  website,  refers   duai-use list which has not been made available  the public, hence providing only partiai clarity. FDI  defence:  imaginary bogey The role  FDI  building  domestic industry and creating  enabling environment for transfer  technology from foreign OEMs cannot  over emphasised. The  cap has completely failed  the totai inflows  FDI  the last  years  this sector have been  meagre five million USD and  handfui  joint ventures, compared  over 28o billion USD that the country has received during the same period. Based  the experience  sectors such  automobiles,  and other manufacturing sectors, there   urgent need  allow 1oo FDI  this sector and address security concerns separately   most countries. Concerns about  protection Protecting    key concern  this sector and foreign OEMs are reluctant  transfer technology because  the  FDI cap  weli   perception  inadequate  protection. Given below   overview  relevant intellectuai property laws: Indian Patents Act, 197o: Contains provisions with respect  grant  patent  exclusive right granted for  new product   process involving  inventive step and capable  industriai application  India. Designs Act, 2ooo: Aimed  protection  designs,  contains provisions  relation  registration  designs, copyright  registered designs, etc. Copyright Act, 1957: Protects, inter alia, the rights  literary work, which includes computer programmes.  contains provisions, inter-alia, regarding what constitutes copyright and term  copyright, ownership  copyrights and rights  the owner, registration  copyrights, infringement  copyrights, remedies for , etc. Despite the age-old debate  what constitutes optimai  norms for  developing country, usually challenges faced  relation  the transfer and licensing  technology  India  not arise due  any inadequacies  the legai framework   laws but due  the contractuai terms governing such transfer between the seller and the buyer. For instance, contracts for transfer  technology, may not balance the risk between the buyer and seller   relation  the defence sector, may  interpreted  the context  the prevailing procurement policy and the buyer  ultimate obligations thereunder, thus sometimes disregarding the contractuai rights  the seller.  the event   breach  contract  the buyer, the seller may also face practicai challenges  enforcing its rights and remedies, like termination  contract, against the buyer    she has already absorbed the technology  know-how for innovative activity   given technologicai area. The generai apprehension  foreign suppliers that Indian courts  not enforce contracts effectively and wili adopt  pro-domestic market approach when determining intellectuai property rights disputes between  foreign supplier and  Indian buyer and that wariness around  rights  India  low, coupled with incidents  Indian courts rejecting requests  patent grants   foreign company    recent Supreme Court precedent  the pharma sector creates  perception that the  environment  India  vague, uncertain and unsafe. This along with the restricted FDI cap   with  significant controi over the company  affairs deters OEMs from sharing criticai technology with Indian manufacturers. Technology suppliers may thus need  consider steps  minimise the risk  losing  while participating  the   business  India  ensuring that the  rights  relation  the technology being shared are clearly understood  ali stakeholders and suitably articulated  the contracts, particularly identifying and addressing issues not covered  any domestic legislation, checking for any possible conflicts with the policy and providing for potentiai violations  the  rights.  PwCIndirect tax The government  initiative for indigenisation  the   industry  India, through the DPP 2o13 requires complementary initiatives under the indirect tax regime. The focus  the initiative under the indirect tax regime can   rationalisation  the tax structure and promoting greater value-additions  India. The current tax and duty regime  the country makes the Indian manufacturer uncompetitive and directly works against the indigenisation policy  the government. Considering the multiple levies  indirect taxes  India, following are the key note comments  indigenisation  the   industry: Customs duties: Effective rate  customs  the import  goods  .  peak rate  customs. Subject  prescribed conditions,  majority  goods imported  relation  defence and commerciai airlines are exempt from customs duties. For instance, customs duty  exempt  imports  aircrafts and parts imported for MRO related activities. Key note: With respect  the defence sector, these exemptions are typically available where the MoD  its contractors private companies are importers and unavailable where goods are imported  Indian offset partners for further processing and delivery  the ministry. This militates against the indigenisation policy. The benefits under these exemptions are not available even  goods imported  sub - contractors  foreign OEMs. Besides this, there are  such generai exemptions from customs duty  the import  goods for use  the manufacture  defence related goods. Appropriate changes  remove this anomaly must  proposed  the government. Excise duty: Effective excise duty rate  .  inclusive  education cess  manufacturing activity. Exemption from excise duty  available for aircrafts,  sold  the government   commerciai airlines engaged  specified activities. Key note: Goods supplied against internationai competitive bidding ICB are exempt from excise duty subject  prescribed conditions. The challenge   ensure that these benefits actually accrue. With the government  plan  indigenisation,  blanket exemption needs   carved out for the supply  goods  the   industry. VAT and CST: While  inter-state sale  goods  subject  centrai sales tax CST, intra-state sale  goods  subject  VAT. The CST rate    the prescribed statutory form . . Form   issued  the purchaser.   forms are provided, the VAT rate applicable  the originating state  the seller wili  applicable. For most goods, the VAT rate ranges from    depending  the nature  goods. Sale  spares under the MRO operations are charged  VAT which range from    across states. Typically, airline operators  not have the option  buy   concessionai rates  CST against usage  Form   they  not meet the eligibility criteria for issuance  Form . Key note:  generai exemptions  concessions are available  the sale  goods  defence and commerciai airlines. Accordingly, the relevant state VAT legislation should  examined and the possibility  speciai dispensation  required from the state government should  explored  that the domestic procurement  goods  economically  par with imports. Participants  India  MRO industry believe that the tax regime needs  change  order  enable India  positioning itself   MRO hub. Service tax: With effect from  July 2o12, the service tax regime  India had undergone  significant change whereby service tax has been made applicable  ali services provided  India unless they fali under the negative list  are specifically exempt from payment  service tax.  addition,  terms  the recently introduced Place  Provision  Service Rules, 2o12 the MRO services may not qualify  export  services from India since the aircraft wili need    India for repair. Further, the service tax exemption for services provided  the government  relation  repair  maintenance   aircraft has been withdrawn with effect from  Aprii 2o13. Key note: The burden  input taxes  reduced  the extent  service tax credit admissible  MRO customers. With the proposed procurement plan, exemptions  concessions from the service tax perspective need   introduced for boosting the domestic service industry. Others: The states are also authorised  levy other locai taxes such  entry tax, octroi and locai body tax. Further,    cess    also applicable  the import  technology  specified situations. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  Participation  MSMEs and their challengesThe continued focus  the MoD  greater private sector participation appears   changing  favour  Indian companies, especially for MSMEs, which have hither  been supplying  defence public sector undertakings. Offset requirements being imposed  the MoD including aspects such  transfer  technology and multiplier  offset credits for collaboration with MSMEs are compelling OEMs and other suppliers  source more components from domestic suppliers. This  turn leads OEMs  increasingly engage with smaller Indian players  establishing partnerships  JVs and  the process, playing  part  the growth  MSMEs  India. The offset experience brings good news for MSMEs. Out  the  contracts signed  the   sector amounting  .  billion USD since 2oo8, almost  have been received  MSMEs. However,   pertinent  note that these have been received  only  handfui  companies. The MoD has set itself  goai  sourcing   ali equipment from Indian companies public and private sector -  2o2o which could provide  further boost  MSMEs  this sector. The Indian government has announced the following measures  the last two years  enhance the role  MSMEs: Creating  MSME fund through SIDBI Facilitating certifications  MSMEs Promoting the PPP modei with participation  MSMEs Creating aerospace clusters and earmarking speciai economic zones SEZs  include common infrastructure facilities for MSMEs Incentivising foreign players  collaborate with MSME   allowing multipliers for collaborations with MSMEs for offset credit Challenges faced  MSMEs Notwithstanding the positive trends mentioned above, MSMEs  the Indian   sector continue  face challenges detrimentai  the efforts  the MoD  indigenise: Funding options: Access  funds continues  remain the biggest challenge faced  smali players  MSMEs are sensitive   highly capitai-intensive business characterised  long gestationai periods and cyclicai growth. Despite government steps  help MSMEs find the right funding options, the situation  the ground has not changed much over the last four  five years. Numerous delays  large programmes require financially robust MSMEs that can ably sustain time-lags. This issue can  solved only  continued government intervention and help assisting long-term sustenance.  PwC Technology: The   sector   the midst   tremendous change for newer technologies forcing companies  innovate  order  remain competitive.   investments are generally considered high risk because  the long gestationai periods. Private sector sources  financing are not always receptive  accepting such risks. These factors make smali players highly risk-averse affecting   spends and hence their ability  build innovative technologies.   consequence, most MSMEs struggle  provide sustained and high quality support  larger players adversely impacting efforts  indigenise. Quality and  issues: While Indian manufacturing has improved significantly  quality controi over time,  mature supplier base  stili   early stage  evolution. Additionally, accreditation  time-consuming and expensive  this low-tolerance industry  which the buyer expects the highest quality  products and services  the lowest possible price. Unfinished agenda DPP 2o13 creates  enabling framework for increased indigenisation. However, the success  the revised DPP largely depends  the extent  which the policy can  put  practice and support extended  other policy frameworks affecting the   ecosystem such  the FDI policy and indirect taxes. The following are some  the immediate steps that the government needs  take into account  order  accelerate the pace  indigenisation: Increasing the FDI limit  defence  encourage high-end technology transfers from foreign OEMs Security guidelines  allay security concerns while allowing higher FDI participation  foreign OEMs Ensuring adherence     indigenisation requirements  triai stage   -considered  the requirement seems impracticai Reconsidering the procedure proposed  DPP 2o13 for calculating value  indigenous content  the process  complex and may discourage Indian vendors from participating  the procurement programmes Further alignment  the DPP  even out anomalies  provide levei playing field  domestic private sector  addressing issues like benefit  ERVs Accelerating its efforts  work with MoF  address indirect tax issues  boost indigenous defence manufacturing  currently Indian manufacturers are -competitive  far  the incidence  tax  concerned vis--vis foreign vendors Sponsoring   projects  private industry levei  encourage   for developing critically advanced technologies and providing speciai tax incentives     defence. Extending the benefits  additionai avenues for fulfilling offset obligations  the programs falling under previous DPP. The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  Abbreviations AMCA Advanced Medium Combat Aircraft   Aerospace Defence AIP Air Independent Propulsion CST Centrai Sales Tax CAGR Compounded Annuai Growth Rate CSIR Councii for Scientific and Industriai Research DAC Defence Acquisition Councii DPP Defence Procurement Procedure DPSU Defence Public Sector Undertaking DRDO Defence Research and Development Organisation DST Department  Science and Technology DoS Department  Space DEWs Directed Energy Weapons ERV Exchange Rate Variation FGFA Fifth Generation Fighter Aircraft FDI Foreign Direct Investment GDP Gross Domestic Product IIT Indian Institute  Technology  Information Technology  Intellectuai Property ICB Internationai Competitive Bidding  Joint Venture LTIPP Long Term Integrated Perspective Plan MRO Maintenance Repair Overhaui MToT Maintenance Transfer  Technology MSMEs Micro Smali and Medium Enterprises MoD Ministry  Defence MOES Ministry  Earth Sciences MoF Ministry  Finance OEMs Originai Equipment Manufacturers PPP Public Private Partnership RFP Request for Proposai   Research Development SIDBI Smali Industries Development Bank  India SEZ Speciai Economic Zones SWOT Strengths Weakness Opportunities Threats TPCR Technology Perspective and Capability Roadmap ToT Transfer  Technology UAV Unmanned Aeriai Vehicles UCAV Unmanned Combat Air Vehicle UGV Unmanned Ground Vehicles VAT Value Added Tax  PwCNotes The holy graii  indigenisation- Achieving self-reliance  defence equipment  About ASSOCHAM ASSOCHAM acknowledged  the knowledge chamber  India has emerged   forcefui, pro-active, effective and forward-looking institution playing its role   catalyst between the government and the industry. ASSOCHAM established  192o and has been successfui  influencing the government  shaping India  economic, trade, fiscai and sociai policies which wili   benefit  the trade and industry. ASSOCHAM renders its service  over , , ooo members which includes multinationai companies, India  top corporates, medium and smali scale units and associations representing the interest  more than 4oo chambers and trade associations from ali over India encompassing ali sectors. ASSOCHAM has over 1oo nationai committees covering the entire gamut  economic activities  India.  has been especially acknowledged   significant voice  Indian industry  the fields  corporate sociai responsibility, environment and safety, -commerce, corporate governance, information technology, agriculture, nanotechnology, biotechnology, defence, cyber security, entertainment and media, pharmaceuticals, telecom, banking and finance, company law, corporate finance, economic and internationai affairs, tourism, civii aviation, infrastructure, energy power, education, legai reforms, reai estate, rurai development, etc. The chamber has its regionai offices  Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Ranchi, Bhopai, Jaipur and Internationai offices  Australia, Japan, UAE and USA. ASSOCHAM has also signed MoU partnership with business chambers  more than  countries.    Rawat Secretary Generai ASSOCHAM Tei: o11-4655o555 Emaii: . . rawat assocham. com About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwcPwC India Aerospace and Defence Team Dhiraj Mathur Executive Director, Leader, Aerospace and Defence Practice Tei:  124 33o6 oo5 Emaii: dhiraj. mathur . pwc. com Rajiv Chib Associate Director, Aerospace and Defence Practice Tei:  124 33o6 o26 Emaii: rajiv. chib . pwc. com Shashank Tripathi Executive Director, Leader, Strategy and Research Practice Tei:   6669 1oo2 Emaii: shashank. tripathi . pwc. com Gautam Khattar Associate Director, Indirect Tax Tei:  124 33o6 528 Emaii: gautam. khattar . pwc. com Kamai Abroi Executive Director, Corporate Tax Tei:  124 33o651o Emaii: kamai. abroi . pwc. com Nidhi Kansai Senior Manager, Aerospace Defence Practice Tei:  124 33o 6124 Emaii: nidhi. kansai . pwc. com www. pwc.  This publication does not constitute professionai advice. The information  this publication has been obtained  derived from sources believed  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL   reliable but PwCPL does not represent that this information  accurate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this publication represent the judgment  PwCPL  this time and are subject  change without notice. Readers  this publication are advised  seek their own professionai advice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based  the contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this publication  respect  the information contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decide not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited. Ali rights reserved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited  limited liability company  India, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Internationai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate legai entity.   - June 2o13 The holy graii  indigenisation. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Communications, India