Title: Digital engagement for inclusive governance
Date Published: 2013-09-17 04:36:53-05:00
Source: pdfs/pwc_digital-engagement-for-inclusive-governance.pdf
Word Count: 2207
Sentence Count: 177
Average Sentence Length: 19.36

--- TOP 20 WORDS ---
service: 54
delivery: 32
public: 28
customer: 28
government: 24
sector: 22
citizens: 21
pwc: 20
digitai: 19
services: 19
india: 13
information: 13
needs: 12
experience: 11
expectations: 10
agencies: 10
departments: 10
engagement: 9
citizen: 9
also: 9

--- CLEANED CONTENT ---

Digitai engagement for inclusive governance www. pwc.  Fostering inclusive growth through G2C service delivery models Executive summary  Assessing the G2C service delivery scenario  Why -governance  yet  gain momentum?  Why  digitai engagement important?  Getting  right: Putting the citizen first  Conclusion p1o  citizens become more aware  their rights, they have become more demanding  the primary consumers  government services. Failure  deliver  time and with required agility fails  meet expectations which  turn results  diminishing confidence  the government delivery system. Effective public service today, should  characterised  transparency, efficiency and accountability. Further,  cater  the young generation, government agencies need  consider fresh strategies  deliver services through the digitai medium. This can extend the reach  delivered services  the wider population and also help  faster adoption. This report explores the opportunity  effective service delivery through new digitai media. New media not only aims  meet the demand  the new generation, but also recommends  the government the means  bringing about greater agility  service delivery and saving cost. This report focusses  examining the divide between the expectations  the new generation and the conventionai service delivery channels and studying the current trends  exhibited  our young citizens,  finally set the stage for G2C service delivery. Executive summary Digitai engagement for inclusive governance 3Assessing the G2C service delivery scenario -governance initiatives  India have traditionally been confronted with the duai challenges  automating government departments and taking online services  the common man.  India,   not feasible  emulate the western models  -governance  more than three-fourth  the population lives  rurai areas, with  large section stili illiterate. However,  cannot  away with -governance implementation nor can  afford  neglect the rurai population. Hence, innovative solutions that suit the typicai needs  Indian society are the need  the hour. Unfortunately though, existing service disbursai schemes have become synonymous with painfui delays and inefficiency. These issues can  largely attributed  the manuai processes that involve long approvai workflows and capturing redundant information through numerous forms. Absence   centralised database means minimai data-sharing between government agencies. This only prolongs the difficulty   citizen looking  avaii multiple services. Untii recently, requesting for any such service necessitated multiple visits  the nearest service delivery centre where information had   submitted through  set  forms. This was usually followed   spate  verifications and approvals, further extending the totai turnaround time  service delivery. This,  turn, often encouraged fraudulent actions that undermined government controi over delivery channels and promoted corruption. Cumulatively, these factors have raised public dissatisfaction with the government  service delivery mechanism and have further discouraged young citizens who seek convenience and speed  service delivery. Present G2C initiatives Recent initiatives  the government  part  setting  mission mode projects MMPs under the Nationai -Governance Plan NeGP look promising and may weli  the breakthrough that could change the perception citizens have  their government and its service delivery schemes. The programme encourages ali government departments and ministries  manage their internai processes electronically. Effectively, this means creating almost paperless departments.   stili work--progress but the lack   firm deadline means that every department  proceeding  its own pace. Since effective -ordination  lacking, even the departments that adopt electronic processes cannot  fully efficient untii other related departments reach the same levei. Source: Census Report, 2oo1; TRAI Jan 2o12Child Birth certificate Healthcare Student Schooi admission Scholarships Elearning Examination results Youth Employment services Driver  licence Vehicle registration Passport and visa Family Land record Property registration Marriage certificate Taxes Utility services Old age Pensions Insurance Healthcare Death certificateGovernment services through  citizen  lifecycle Anytime, anywhere service availability Improved service qualityTransparent, efficient and secure deliveryCitizen centric solution33 India  rurai teledensityOut  India  .  billion population, almost  reside  rurai areas. Out  about .  billion population, there are already around 929 million mobile subscriptions. PwC4 There are  few success stories, though, like the MCA21 mission mode project, which addressed the challenges faced  the Ministry  Corporate Affairs  providing services  corporate entities, and others like -filing  income tax returns and land record management systems. The success  -filing  income tax returns can  gauged  the significant year--year increase  the number  citizens and users who have adopted the system. Mission mode projects MMPs conceptualised under NeGP Centrai government categoryIncome tax Passport, visa and immigration Insurance Nationai citizen database Centrai excise Pensions Banking -office State govt categoryLand recordsProperty registrationAgricultureTreasury Municipalities Gram panchayat Commerciai taxes Employment exchanges -district Source: Nationai -Governance Plan, 11th Report Factors  consider: Degree  efficiency and transparency Extent  reduction  cost and improvement  convenience Extent  integration  back-end processes with front-end Amenability for public private partnership PPP arrangement Enhancement  revenue for the government and the service provider Technologicai robustness  the project Digitai engagement for inclusive governance 5Why -governance  yet  gain momentum  spite   increased levei   spending  the government, which surpasses that  even some  the biggest private enterprises, the overali effectiveness   systems  government and public sector enterprises PSEs  yet  produce intended results. The reasons for these are not very disparate from the private sector failure stories such  poor system selection, lack  management, employee buy- and lack  parameters  assess the success  any  initiative. There are, however,  few reasons unique  PSEs. These mainly include perceived job insecurity through the introduction   systems, loss  power  information sharing and weak change management. Consistent failures  ICT implementation owing  these reasons have further maligned the perception  such initiatives. Mishandled change management not only jeopardises the current project but also sets the organisation back considerably  its  roadmap,  both service providers and consumers remain skepticai about newer and better initiatives. Currently, most government departments are seen working stand- alone with separate databases, partly owing  security concerns about sensitive data. Although integration across various departments with secured, authorised data-sharing   the rise, much  yet   achieved.  major downside  such  siloed working modei  duplication  activities across services that may  discouraging due  the extra effort and time involved. Often, various government-run service portals may  seen functioning  obsolete platforms, not optimised for the latest applications. Worse stili, important links need   dug out from within layers  web-pages and may involve multiple data entry points  the process. Such features are contradictory  the internet usage pattern  the young generation and therefore, act  dampeners. Access  -the- services  another cruciai requirement for present-day consumers, but highly lacking  conventionai service delivery channels due  fixed service locations, strict process workflows and multiple verification levels. There   evident misalignment between the younger generation  expectations and what  currently being offered. This generation gap arises primarily out   failure  grasp the consumption patterns  the digitai natives and  reluctance  adapt  new technology and the process -engineering that  entails. Steps can  taken  redress such disparity and bridge the gap, while doing away with obsolete working methodologies. Key barriers  adoption  technology Resistance  change Lack  standard processes and poor business process -engineering Lack  trained  personnei Weak change management Lack  clearly defined responsibilities and process owners   time  wasted   day  work  trying  contact people  find information and schedule meetings67 minutes  day  spent trying  find key information39 minutes  day are spent  duplicating the same communications Source: 2oo9 2o1o Tower Watson Communication ROI StudyTM Source: Census Report, 2oo1; TRAI Jan 2o12 PwC6Why  digitai engagement important? Driven  growing consumer expectations, the efficiency and effectiveness  public service delivery are increasingly seen  key metrics   government  performance. Consumer expectations from service delivery channels span seven key areas: Speed The time taken  deliver  service should  the shortest possible for both the consumer and the organisation delivering the service Engagement The manner  which services are delivered should  seen  consumer-centric . . participatory and trustworthy with the citizens needs  the core Responsiveness There should   intelligent mechanism  place  address any variation  meeting service levels and  drive changes  the service delivery organisation Value The consumer needs  believe that the service delivery mechanism  cost-effective, and value  driven  consumer outcomes, not organisationai processes Integration The service delivery mechanism needs   integrated, with  wrong door policy for citizens Choice There needs   multiple channels for service delivery,  that consumers can have channels  choice, depending  specific needs  specific times Experience Personalisation  service  necessary  ensure that consumers experiences are  par with what they are used  receiving from other modern-day entities Internet penetration  India has almost doubled  the last four years, making  the fourth largest user base  the world. -commerce has increased from , ooo crore INR  2oo9  , ooo crore INR  2o11. Out   population  about .  billion, there are already around 929 million mobile subscriptions. Forty per cent  Indian users made  phone cali using Skype three times more than  and six times more than Japan. One-third  India  sociai media users use micro-blogging sites such  Twitter  least once  day. Source: PwC research and analysis; TRAI Jan 2o12 Source: Nielsen, Globai Average Base: Ali respondents  , 665 The following factors are the major drivers  change  existing service delivery mechanisms: Consumer awareness Citizens today are more aware  their rights, have better access  information  public services and consequently have higher expectations  service levels. They also expect  positive customer experience and better returns  the taxes they pay. Further, the country has empowered citizens with the Right  Information legislation leading  heightened awareness about customer rights and, consequently, customer service. Budgetary constraints Tightening budgets and the need for value for money with respect  tax payments  citizens and businesses are forcing governments  address the issue  public service delivery.  many countries, changes have been introduced, aimed  ensuring that the public sector performs under two key metrics: quality  service including accessibility for ali and satisfactory customer experiences and outcomes, and cost  service, leading  value for money. Accountability and transparency The heightened role  the media and sociai activism has combined  create greater demand for accountability and transparency. However, the issue  accountability  particularly complicated. for the government. When things  wrong for government and public sector organisations,  often makes front page news and instantly transforms  management issue into  politicai problem.   more likely  share write about Tweet, review, etc  negative rather than  positive product experience online Digitai engagement for inclusive governance 7Conventionai marketing wisdom long held that  dissatisfied customer tells ten people. But  the new age  sociai media,   she has the tools  teli ten million. Paui Gillin, author  The New Influencers Source: PwC Digitai Tipping Point Survey 2o11 Combined proportion  respondents who are currently using  considering using Online MobileCustomer segments preferences for digitai channelsCompetitive drive Attracting investment  fund economic growth   priority  most countries. Investment fund managers regard public sector efficiency  one  the important factors  evaluating the investment destination.  this context, the cost  doing business becomes  important measure  public sector efficiency. Ensuring reduced cost calls for  balanced approach which  aligned both  the needs  the customer and towards realising greater efficiencies  service delivery. Thus, the globai competition for investments   means for economic growth  also driving the agenda for reforms  the public service delivery. Changing interests  Indian youth Young people  interest  traditionai politicai parties and organisations has been declining. They frequent digitai terrains  the internet has become one  the most effective mediums for mobilising opinions and involvement. The governments, organisations and companies ali over the world are beginning  acknowledge this phenomenon. What  even more important  that behaviourai patterns and actions are rapidly changing. This  particularly noticeable among the digitai natives who have grown   the internet age, and have explored the unlimited possibilities that  offers. These changes  necessitate  understanding  how and where communication with future citizens wili take place. The youth,  addition  having digitai relationships, also seeks direct contact with organisations. Owing  the wide-spread internet usage and  deeper mobile penetration, there has been  shift  the young consumers expectations for delivery channels that are capable  dispensing the required services faster without any location  accessibility limitations. The -generation seeks faster and convenient means  expression and collaboration and  constantly searching for different means  engagement with institutions and decision making  their fields  interest.   therefore cruciai  utilise such youth involvement through digitai channels, which wili  turn result  them having better interaction with the traditionai institutions.  consumers began engaging with  competitor following  poor customer experience.  companies with stronger capabilities and competencies for delivering customer experience excellence are outperforming their competitorsEven   negative economy, customer experience   priority with  often  always paying more for  better experience. User expectations and behaviour are changing. The country now has  new digitai generation. Radicai modernisation  public service delivery  the needed  order  bring  sense  inclusiveness among these digitai natives. PwC8Getting  right: Putting the citizen first Public sector departments and agencies across the globe are increasingly adopting  one stop shop citizen-centric service delivery modei. The idea   enable the customers with  single access point  information and service transactions. The development  such models calls for  holistic customer insight. Listen  the citizens Government policies have traditionally had internai focus. Owing  their lack  understanding  the citizens interest, public sector departments and agencies have traditionally designed models that impose  the citizens rather than collaborating with them. Not only does this exacerbate  noncitizen-centric culture but also fundamentally limits the outcomes for citizens which   supposed  serve.  understand the customer  needs, expectations and preferences,  number  techniques are available  the public sector. These include customer research, touch point journey mapping and customer segmentation. Customer  voice: Engaging with the citizens and having them participate  designing  one stop shop through customer research enables their ideas and perspectives  included   the citizen-centric service delivery modei. Touch point mapping: Public sector organisations play  number  roles including setting and administering policy, enforcement, customer service, operationai delivery, efficiently and effectively undertaking design, development and maintenance  the infrastructure. Understanding how the customers see  public sector organisation and its operating units  criticai  understanding their experience.  structured approach  touch point mapping can provide this information. Effective customer segmentation: The public sector  required  serve diverse customer segments. Unlike the private sector, where customers are treated differently according  their capacity  pay for services, the public sector  required  satisfy the rights  its entire customer base; equally and   the standards.   therefore essentiai  develop clear strategies for ensuring the inclusion  ali the segments  society  weli  meeting their needs. The needs  these various segments can  quite distinct and wili  driven  multiple factorsThere are five guiding principles for  citizen-centric one stop shop: Listen  the citizens Break down the silos Enable  multi channei service experience Constantly improve through citizen feedback Set citizen centric service standards Interface Dept  Dept  Dept  Dept 3Dept 4Fragmented valueCustomer-centric approach CustomerDepartment-centric approach Customer IntermediariesDepartment  Department  Department  Departmentai Support Intermediaries Department  Department 5Fragmented value Transformation Digitai engagement for inclusive governance 9The Planning Commission and the Nationai Innovation Councii organised the first ever hackathon  involve individuals and groups from various spheres  life  collaborating towards innovative communication during the 12th Plan 2o12- through creative visualisations and software applications. Government agencies are increasingly adopting sociai media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, etc. for better interaction. However, they should also try  utilise these platforms for service delivery. Break down the silos The design and delivery   one stop shop needs  take into account the way public sector departments and agencies are structured hierarchicai  siloed. For the customer, the siloed structure means where they are often left joining  between agency silos rather than seeing  single organisation that  working for them. While breaking down hierarchicai structures, the emphasis should   how  make agency silos more connected rather than abandoning them altogether. Though this  not  simple task,  does not imply that  complete government restructuring  required.  means addressing the silos which exist within individuai public sector agencies and integrating them  form what  refer    connected government. Enable  multichannei service interface Citizens needs, expectations and preferences are shaped  their experiences with the private sector and consequently, they are increasingly demanding the same levei  channei choices when interacting with the public sector. For public sector agencies, engaging with the citizens through their online networks   quick, direct and cost effective method. However, there are challenges which could lead   poor and inconsistent customer experience and should  immediately addressed. Constant improvement through citizen feedback Customer feedback   powerfui tooi not only for understanding customers experience and satisfaction with public services, but also for developing strategies  improve them. Unfortunately, customer feedback has not been fully utilised  the public sector agencies. For such agencies, lack  customer feedback can   source  major operationai risk and severely hinder their continuous learning capabilities.   result, any one stop shop modei should ensure that  incorporates customer feedback into the service design, processes and customer interfaces. Set citizen centric service standards The rising demand for better governance standards  the private sector have spurred initiatives aimed  improving disclosure and corporate governance. Heightened customer awareness has particularly driven  demand for greater accountability and transparency, forcing the public sector  respond positively. Technology has enabled increased accessibility  government services. Citizens can obtain information and avaii services through  easy  use, simplified navigation system. There   increased visibility  operations for transparency . . agency scorecard performance, update status  service requests. Performance information  used  improve service levels and increase accountability. PwC1oIt  evident that technology facilitates effective governance. The power  the rapidly growing traditionai and sociai media has transformed how citizens access and share information. The growth  the number  young, educated people  India argues weli for promoting  new set  ideas that might have appeared impossible  inconceivable  few years ago.  one stop shops   multi channei presence through digitai mediums has unprecedented potentiai and has revolutionised the way  communicate.   time  make the most  this positive change. Conclusion About PwC PwC helps organisations and individuals create the value they  looking for.    network  firms  158 countries with more than 18o, ooo people who are committed  delivering quality  assurance, tax and advisory services. PwC India refers  the network  PwC firms  India, having offices : Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. For more information about PwC India  service offerings, please visit www. pwc. . PwC refers  PwC India and may sometimes refer  the PwC network. Each member firm   separate legai entity. Please see www. pwc. com structure for further details. You can connect with  : facebook. com PwCIndia twitter. com PwC_IN linkedin. com company pwc-india youtube. com pwc Contacts Pradip Bhowmick Executive director PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Phone: --44o43293 Emaii: pradip. bhowmick . pwc. com Arindam Mukhopadhyay Managing consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Phone: o91-9711599o97 Emaii: arindam. mukhopadhyay . pwc. com Arunava Mitra Managing consultant PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. Phone: o91-983661o1o6 Emaii: arunava. mitra . pwc. com Contributors Amrita Chatterjee Pranav Singh Sayan Basu pwc.  Data Classification: DCo This publication does not consti tute professionai advice. The  nforma tion  this publication has been obtained  derived   sources believed  Pricewate rhouseCoopers Private Limited PwCPL    liable but PwCPL does not  present that this information   curate  complete. Any opinions  estimates contained  this public ation represent the judgment  PwCP   this time and are subjec   change without notice. Reade   this publication are advised  see  their own professionai  dvice before taking any course  action  decision, for which they are entirely responsible, based    contents  this publication. PwCPL neither accepts  assumes any responsibility  liability  any reader  this  ublication  respect  the info rmation contained within   for any decisions readers may take  decid  not   faii  take. 2o13 PricewaterhouseCoopers Pri vate Limited. Ali rights res erved.  this document, PwC refers  PricewaterhouseCoopers Priv ate Limited  limited liability  mpany  India having Corporate Identity Number  CIN: U7414oWB1983P TCo36o93, which   member firm  PricewaterhouseCoopers Interna tionai Limited PwCIL, each member firm  which   separate lega  entity.   - Sep 2o13 Infocom. indd Designed : PwC Brand and Com munications, India